# DescribeRestoreJob

Returns metadata associated with a restore job that is specified by a job ID.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

GET /restore-jobs/restoreJobId HTTP/1.1

```

## URI Request Parameters

The request uses the following URI parameters.

**[restoreJobId](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_RequestSyntax)**

Uniquely identifies the job that restores a recovery point.

Required: Yes

## Request Body

The request does not have a request body.

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-type: application/json

{
   "AccountId": "string",
   "BackupSizeInBytes": number,
   "BackupVaultArn": "string",
   "CompletionDate": number,
   "CreatedBy": {
      "RestoreTestingPlanArn": "string"
   },
   "CreatedResourceArn": "string",
   "CreationDate": number,
   "DeletionStatus": "string",
   "DeletionStatusMessage": "string",
   "ExpectedCompletionTimeMinutes": number,
   "IamRoleArn": "string",
   "IsParent": boolean,
   "ParentJobId": "string",
   "PercentDone": "string",
   "RecoveryPointArn": "string",
   "RecoveryPointCreationDate": number,
   "ResourceType": "string",
   "RestoreJobId": "string",
   "SourceResourceArn": "string",
   "Status": "string",
   "StatusMessage": "string",
   "ValidationStatus": "string",
   "ValidationStatusMessage": "string"
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[AccountId](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Returns the account ID that owns the restore job.

Type: String

Pattern: `^[0-9]{12}$`

**[BackupSizeInBytes](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The size, in bytes, of the restored resource.

Type: Long

**[BackupVaultArn](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the backup vault containing the recovery point being restored. This helps identify vault access policies and permissions.

Type: String

**[CompletionDate](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The date and time that a job to restore a recovery point is completed, in Unix format
and Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The value of `CompletionDate` is accurate
to milliseconds. For example, the value 1516925490.087 represents Friday, January 26, 2018
12:11:30.087 AM.

Type: Timestamp

**[CreatedBy](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Contains identifying information about the creation of a restore job.

Type: [RestoreJobCreator](api-restorejobcreator.md) object

**[CreatedResourceArn](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the resource that
was created by the restore job.

The format of the ARN depends on the resource type of the backed-up
resource.

Type: String

**[CreationDate](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The date and time that a restore job is created, in Unix format and Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC). The value of `CreationDate` is accurate to milliseconds.
For example, the value 1516925490.087 represents Friday, January 26, 2018 12:11:30.087
AM.

Type: Timestamp

**[DeletionStatus](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The status of the data generated by the restore test.

Type: String

Valid Values: `DELETING | FAILED | SUCCESSFUL`

**[DeletionStatusMessage](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

This describes the restore job deletion status.

Type: String

**[ExpectedCompletionTimeMinutes](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The amount of time in minutes that a job restoring a recovery point is expected to
take.

Type: Long

**[IamRoleArn](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Specifies the IAM role ARN used to create the target recovery point; for example,
`arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/S3Access`.

Type: String

**[IsParent](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

This is a boolean value indicating whether the restore job is a parent (composite) restore job.

Type: Boolean

**[ParentJobId](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

This is the unique identifier of the parent restore job for the selected restore job.

Type: String

**[PercentDone](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Contains an estimated percentage that is complete of a job at the time the job status
was queried.

Type: String

**[RecoveryPointArn](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

An ARN that uniquely identifies a recovery point; for example,
`arn:aws:backup:us-east-1:123456789012:recovery-point:1EB3B5E7-9EB0-435A-A80B-108B488B0D45`.

Type: String

**[RecoveryPointCreationDate](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The creation date of the recovery point made by the specifed restore job.

Type: Timestamp

**[ResourceType](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Returns metadata associated with a restore job listed by resource type.

Type: String

Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9\-\_\.]{1,50}$`

**[RestoreJobId](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Uniquely identifies the job that restores a recovery point.

Type: String

**[SourceResourceArn](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the original resource that was backed up. This provides context about what resource is being restored.

Type: String

**[Status](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

Status code specifying the state of the job that is initiated by AWS Backup to
restore a recovery point.

Type: String

Valid Values: `PENDING | RUNNING | COMPLETED | ABORTED | FAILED`

**[StatusMessage](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

A message showing the status of a job to restore a recovery point.

Type: String

**[ValidationStatus](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The status of validation run on the indicated
restore job.

Type: String

Valid Values: `FAILED | SUCCESSFUL | TIMED_OUT | VALIDATING`

**[ValidationStatusMessage](#API_DescribeRestoreJob_ResponseSyntax)**

The status message.

Type: String

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**DependencyFailureException**

A dependent AWS service or resource returned an error to the AWS Backup service, and the action cannot be completed.

**Context**

**Type**

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidParameterValueException**

Indicates that something is wrong with a parameter's value. For example, the value is
out of range.

**Context**

**Type**

HTTP Status Code: 400

**MissingParameterValueException**

Indicates that a required parameter is missing.

**Context**

**Type**

HTTP Status Code: 400

**ResourceNotFoundException**

A resource that is required for the action doesn't exist.

**Context**

**Type**

HTTP Status Code: 400

**ServiceUnavailableException**

The request failed due to a temporary failure of the server.

**Context**

**Type**

HTTP Status Code: 500

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../goto/cli2/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../../reference/goto/dotnetsdkv4/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforcpp/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforgov2/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforjavav2/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforkotlin/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforphpv3/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../goto/boto3/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../../reference/goto/sdkforrubyv3/backup-2018-11-15/describerestorejob.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

DescribeReportPlan

DescribeScanJob

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
