# DynamoDBMapper Class

The `DynamoDBMapper` class is the entry point to Amazon DynamoDB. It provides
access to a DynamoDB endpoint and enables you to access your data in various tables. It
also enables you to perform various create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) operations
on items, and run queries and scans against tables. This class provides the following
methods for working with DynamoDB.

For the corresponding Javadoc documentation, see [DynamoDBMapper](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/services/dynamodbv2/datamodeling/DynamoDBMapper.html) in the _AWS SDK for Java API Reference_.

###### Topics

- [save](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.save)

- [load](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.load)

- [delete](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.delete)

- [query](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.query)

- [queryPage](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.queryPage)

- [scan](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.scan)

- [scanPage](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.scanPage)

- [parallelScan](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.parallelScan)

- [batchSave](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.batchSave)

- [batchLoad](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.batchLoad)

- [batchDelete](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.batchDelete)

- [batchWrite](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.batchWrite)

- [transactionWrite](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.transactionWrite)

- [transactionLoad](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.transactionLoad)

- [count](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.count)

- [generateCreateTableRequest](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.generateCreateTableRequest)

- [createS3Link](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.createS3Link)

- [getS3ClientCache](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.getS3ClientCache)

## save

Saves the specified object to the table. The object that you want to save is the
only required parameter for this method. You can provide optional configuration
parameters using the `DynamoDBMapperConfig` object.

If an item that has the same primary key does not exist, this method creates a new
item in the table. If an item that has the same primary key exists, it updates the
existing item. If the partition key and sort key are of type String and are
annotated with `@DynamoDBAutoGeneratedKey`, they are given a random
universally unique identifier (UUID) if left uninitialized. Version fields that are
annotated with `@DynamoDBVersionAttribute` are incremented by one.
Additionally, if a version field is updated or a key generated, the object passed in
is updated as a result of the operation.

By default, only attributes corresponding to mapped class properties are updated.
Any additional existing attributes on an item are unaffected. However, if you
specify `SaveBehavior.CLOBBER`, you can force the item to be completely
overwritten.

```java

DynamoDBMapperConfig config = DynamoDBMapperConfig.builder()
    .withSaveBehavior(DynamoDBMapperConfig.SaveBehavior.CLOBBER).build();

mapper.save(item, config);
```

If you have versioning enabled, the client-side and server-side item versions must
match. However, the version does not need to match if the
`SaveBehavior.CLOBBER` option is used. For more information about
versioning, see [DynamoDB and optimistic locking with version number](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBMapper.OptimisticLocking.html).

## load

Retrieves an item from a table. You must provide the primary key of the item that
you want to retrieve. You can provide optional configuration parameters using the
`DynamoDBMapperConfig` object. For example, you can optionally
request strongly consistent reads to ensure that this method retrieves only the
latest item values as shown in the following Java statement.

```java

DynamoDBMapperConfig config = DynamoDBMapperConfig.builder()
    .withConsistentReads(DynamoDBMapperConfig.ConsistentReads.CONSISTENT).build();

CatalogItem item = mapper.load(CatalogItem.class, item.getId(), config);
```

By default, DynamoDB returns the item that has values that are eventually consistent.
For information about the eventual consistency model of DynamoDB, see [DynamoDB read consistency](howitworks-readconsistency.md).

## delete

Deletes an item from the table. You must pass in an object instance of the mapped
class.

If you have versioning enabled, the client-side and server-side item versions must
match. However, the version does not need to match if the
`SaveBehavior.CLOBBER` option is used. For more information about
versioning, see [DynamoDB and optimistic locking with version number](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBMapper.OptimisticLocking.html).

## query

Queries a table or a secondary index.

Assume that you have a table, `Reply`, that stores forum thread
replies. Each thread subject can have zero or more replies. The primary key of the
`Reply` table consists of the `Id` and
`ReplyDateTime` fields, where `Id` is the partition key
and `ReplyDateTime` is the sort key of the primary key.

```java

Reply ( Id, ReplyDateTime, ... )
```

Assume that you created a mapping between a `Reply` class and the
corresponding `Reply` table in DynamoDB. The following Java code uses
`DynamoDBMapper` to find all replies in the past two weeks for a
specific thread subject.

###### Example

```java

String forumName = "&DDB;";
String forumSubject = "&DDB; Thread 1";
String partitionKey = forumName + "#" + forumSubject;

long twoWeeksAgoMilli = (new Date()).getTime() - (14L*24L*60L*60L*1000L);
Date twoWeeksAgo = new Date();
twoWeeksAgo.setTime(twoWeeksAgoMilli);
SimpleDateFormat df = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'");
String twoWeeksAgoStr = df.format(twoWeeksAgo);

Map<String, AttributeValue> eav = new HashMap<String, AttributeValue>();
eav.put(":v1", new AttributeValue().withS(partitionKey));
eav.put(":v2",new AttributeValue().withS(twoWeeksAgoStr.toString()));

DynamoDBQueryExpression<Reply> queryExpression = new DynamoDBQueryExpression<Reply>()
    .withKeyConditionExpression("Id = :v1 and ReplyDateTime > :v2")
    .withExpressionAttributeValues(eav);

List<Reply> latestReplies = mapper.query(Reply.class, queryExpression);
```

The query returns a collection of `Reply` objects.

By default, the `query` method returns a "lazy-loaded" collection. It
initially returns only one page of results, and then makes a service call for the
next page if needed. To obtain all the matching items, iterate over the
`latestReplies` collection.

Note that calling the `size()` method on the collection will load every
result in order to provide an accurate count. This can result in a lot of
provisioned throughput being consumed, and on a very large table could even exhaust
all the memory in your JVM.

To query an index, you must first model the index as a mapper class. Suppose that
the `Reply` table has a global secondary index named _PostedBy-Message-Index_. The partition key for this index is
`PostedBy`, and the sort key is `Message`. The class
definition for an item in the index would look like the following.

```java

@DynamoDBTable(tableName="Reply")
public class PostedByMessage {
    private String postedBy;
    private String message;

    @DynamoDBIndexHashKey(globalSecondaryIndexName = "PostedBy-Message-Index", attributeName = "PostedBy")
    public String getPostedBy() { return postedBy; }
    public void setPostedBy(String postedBy) { this.postedBy = postedBy; }

    @DynamoDBIndexRangeKey(globalSecondaryIndexName = "PostedBy-Message-Index", attributeName = "Message")
    public String getMessage() { return message; }
    public void setMessage(String message) { this.message = message; }

   // Additional properties go here.
}
```

The `@DynamoDBTable` annotation indicates that this index is associated
with the `Reply` table. The `@DynamoDBIndexHashKey` annotation
denotes the partition key ( _PostedBy_) of the index, and
`@DynamoDBIndexRangeKey` denotes the sort key
( _Message_) of the index.

Now you can use `DynamoDBMapper` to query the index, retrieving a
subset of messages that were posted by a particular user. You do not need to specify
the index name if you do not have conflicting mappings across tables and indexes and
the mappings are already made in the mapper. The mapper will infer based on the
primary key and sort key. The following code queries a global secondary index. Because global
secondary indexes support eventually consistent reads but not strongly consistent
reads, you must specify `withConsistentRead(false)`.

```java

HashMap<String, AttributeValue> eav = new HashMap<String, AttributeValue>();
eav.put(":v1",  new AttributeValue().withS("User A"));
eav.put(":v2",  new AttributeValue().withS("DynamoDB"));

DynamoDBQueryExpression<PostedByMessage> queryExpression = new DynamoDBQueryExpression<PostedByMessage>()
    .withIndexName("PostedBy-Message-Index")
    .withConsistentRead(false)
    .withKeyConditionExpression("PostedBy = :v1 and begins_with(Message, :v2)")
    .withExpressionAttributeValues(eav);

List<PostedByMessage> iList =  mapper.query(PostedByMessage.class, queryExpression);
```

The query returns a collection of `PostedByMessage` objects.

## queryPage

Queries a table or secondary index and returns a single page of matching results. As with the
`query` method, you must specify a partition key value and a query
filter that is applied on the sort key attribute. However, `queryPage`
returns only the first "page" of data, that is, the amount of data that fits in
1 MB

## scan

Scans an entire table or a secondary index. You can optionally specify a
`FilterExpression` to filter the result set.

Assume that you have a table, `Reply`, that stores forum thread
replies. Each thread subject can have zero or more replies. The primary key of the
`Reply` table consists of the `Id` and
`ReplyDateTime` fields, where `Id` is the partition key
and `ReplyDateTime` is the sort key of the primary key.

```java

Reply ( Id, ReplyDateTime, ... )
```

If you mapped a Java class to the `Reply` table, you can use the
`DynamoDBMapper` to scan the table. For example, the following Java
code scans the entire `Reply` table, returning only the replies for a
particular year.

###### Example

```java

HashMap<String, AttributeValue> eav = new HashMap<String, AttributeValue>();
eav.put(":v1", new AttributeValue().withS("2015"));

DynamoDBScanExpression scanExpression = new DynamoDBScanExpression()
    .withFilterExpression("begins_with(ReplyDateTime,:v1)")
    .withExpressionAttributeValues(eav);

List<Reply> replies =  mapper.scan(Reply.class, scanExpression);
```

By default, the `scan` method returns a "lazy-loaded" collection. It
initially returns only one page of results, and then makes a service call for the
next page if needed. To obtain all the matching items, iterate over the
`replies` collection.

Note that calling the `size()` method on the collection will load every
result in order to provide an accurate count. This can result in a lot of
provisioned throughput being consumed, and on a very large table could even exhaust
all the memory in your JVM.

To scan an index, you must first model the index as a mapper class. Suppose that
the `Reply` table has a global secondary index named `PostedBy-Message-Index`.
The partition key for this index is `PostedBy`, and the sort key is
`Message`. A mapper class for this index is shown in the [query](#DynamoDBMapper.Methods.query) section. It uses the
`@DynamoDBIndexHashKey` and `@DynamoDBIndexRangeKey`
annotations to specify the index partition key and sort key.

The following code example scans `PostedBy-Message-Index`. It does not
use a scan filter, so all of the items in the index are returned to you.

```java

DynamoDBScanExpression scanExpression = new DynamoDBScanExpression()
    .withIndexName("PostedBy-Message-Index")
    .withConsistentRead(false);

    List<PostedByMessage> iList =  mapper.scan(PostedByMessage.class, scanExpression);
    Iterator<PostedByMessage> indexItems = iList.iterator();
```

## scanPage

Scans a table or secondary index and returns a single page of matching results. As with the
`scan` method, you can optionally specify a
`FilterExpression` to filter the result set. However,
`scanPage` only returns the first "page" of data, that is, the amount
of data that fits within 1 MB.

## parallelScan

Performs a parallel scan of an entire table or secondary index. You specify a number of
logical segments for the table, along with a scan expression to filter the results.
The `parallelScan` divides the scan task among multiple workers, one for
each logical segment; the workers process the data in parallel and return the
results.

The following Java code example performs a parallel scan on the
`Product` table.

```java

int numberOfThreads = 4;

Map<String, AttributeValue> eav = new HashMap<String, AttributeValue>();
eav.put(":n", new AttributeValue().withN("100"));

DynamoDBScanExpression scanExpression = new DynamoDBScanExpression()
    .withFilterExpression("Price <= :n")
    .withExpressionAttributeValues(eav);

List<Product> scanResult = mapper.parallelScan(Product.class, scanExpression, numberOfThreads);
```

## batchSave

Saves objects to one or more tables using one or more calls to the
`AmazonDynamoDB.batchWriteItem` method. This method does not provide
transaction guarantees.

The following Java code saves two items (books) to the `ProductCatalog`
table.

```java

Book book1 = new Book();
book1.setId(901);
book1.setProductCategory("Book");
book1.setTitle("Book 901 Title");

Book book2 = new Book();
book2.setId(902);
book2.setProductCategory("Book");
book2.setTitle("Book 902 Title");

mapper.batchSave(Arrays.asList(book1, book2));
```

## batchLoad

Retrieves multiple items from one or more tables using their primary keys.

The following Java code retrieves two items from two different tables.

```java

ArrayList<Object> itemsToGet = new ArrayList<Object>();

ForumItem forumItem = new ForumItem();
forumItem.setForumName("Amazon DynamoDB");
itemsToGet.add(forumItem);

ThreadItem threadItem = new ThreadItem();
threadItem.setForumName("Amazon DynamoDB");
threadItem.setSubject("Amazon DynamoDB thread 1 message text");
itemsToGet.add(threadItem);

Map<String, List<Object>> items = mapper.batchLoad(itemsToGet);
```

## batchDelete

Deletes objects from one or more tables using one or more calls to the
`AmazonDynamoDB.batchWriteItem` method. This method does not provide
transaction guarantees.

The following Java code deletes two items (books) from the
`ProductCatalog` table.

```java

Book book1 = mapper.load(Book.class, 901);
Book book2 = mapper.load(Book.class, 902);
mapper.batchDelete(Arrays.asList(book1, book2));
```

## batchWrite

Saves objects to and deletes objects from one or more tables using one or more
calls to the `AmazonDynamoDB.batchWriteItem` method. This method does not
provide transaction guarantees or support versioning (conditional puts or
deletes).

The following Java code writes a new item to the `Forum` table, writes
a new item to the `Thread` table, and deletes an item from the
`ProductCatalog` table.

```java

// Create a Forum item to save
Forum forumItem = new Forum();
forumItem.setName("Test BatchWrite Forum");

// Create a Thread item to save
Thread threadItem = new Thread();
threadItem.setForumName("AmazonDynamoDB");
threadItem.setSubject("My sample question");

// Load a ProductCatalog item to delete
Book book3 = mapper.load(Book.class, 903);

List<Object> objectsToWrite = Arrays.asList(forumItem, threadItem);
List<Book> objectsToDelete = Arrays.asList(book3);

mapper.batchWrite(objectsToWrite, objectsToDelete);
```

## transactionWrite

Saves objects to and deletes objects from one or more tables using one call to the
`AmazonDynamoDB.transactWriteItems` method.

For a list of transaction-specific exceptions, see [TransactWriteItems errors](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_TransactWriteItems.html#API_TransactWriteItems_Errors).

For more information about DynamoDB transactions and the provided atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) guarantees see [Amazon DynamoDB\
Transactions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/transactions.html).

###### Note

This method does not support the following:

- [DynamoDBMapperConfig.SaveBehavior](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBMapper.OptionalConfig.html).

The following Java code writes a new item to each of the `Forum` and
`Thread` tables, transactionally.

```java

Thread s3ForumThread = new Thread();
s3ForumThread.setForumName("S3 Forum");
s3ForumThread.setSubject("Sample Subject 1");
s3ForumThread.setMessage("Sample Question 1");

Forum s3Forum = new Forum();
s3Forum.setName("S3 Forum");
s3Forum.setCategory("Amazon Web Services");
s3Forum.setThreads(1);

TransactionWriteRequest transactionWriteRequest = new TransactionWriteRequest();
transactionWriteRequest.addPut(s3Forum);
transactionWriteRequest.addPut(s3ForumThread);
mapper.transactionWrite(transactionWriteRequest);
```

## transactionLoad

Loads objects from one or more tables using one call to the
`AmazonDynamoDB.transactGetItems` method.

For a list of transaction-specific exceptions, see [TransactGetItems errors](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_TransactGetItems.html#API_TransactGetItems_Errors).

For more information about DynamoDB transactions and the provided atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) guarantees see [Amazon DynamoDB\
Transactions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/transactions.html).

The following Java code loads one item from each of the `Forum` and
`Thread` tables, transactionally.

```java

Forum dynamodbForum = new Forum();
dynamodbForum.setName("DynamoDB Forum");
Thread dynamodbForumThread = new Thread();
dynamodbForumThread.setForumName("DynamoDB Forum");

TransactionLoadRequest transactionLoadRequest = new TransactionLoadRequest();
transactionLoadRequest.addLoad(dynamodbForum);
transactionLoadRequest.addLoad(dynamodbForumThread);
mapper.transactionLoad(transactionLoadRequest);
```

## count

Evaluates the specified scan expression and returns the count of matching items.
No item data is returned.

## generateCreateTableRequest

Parses a POJO class that represents a DynamoDB table, and returns a
`CreateTableRequest` for that table.

## createS3Link

Creates a link to an object in Amazon S3. You must specify a bucket name and a key
name, which uniquely identifies the object in the bucket.

To use `createS3Link`, your mapper class must define getter and setter
methods. The following code example illustrates this by adding a new attribute and
getter/setter methods to the `CatalogItem` class.

```java

@DynamoDBTable(tableName="ProductCatalog")
public class CatalogItem {

    ...

    public S3Link productImage;

    ....

    @DynamoDBAttribute(attributeName = "ProductImage")
    public S3Link getProductImage() {
            return productImage;
    }

    public void setProductImage(S3Link productImage) {
        this.productImage = productImage;
    }

...
}
```

The following Java code defines a new item to be written to the
`Product` table. The item includes a link to a product image; the
image data is uploaded to Amazon S3.

```java

CatalogItem item = new CatalogItem();

item.setId(150);
item.setTitle("Book 150 Title");

String amzn-s3-demo-bucket = "amzn-s3-demo-bucket";
String myS3Key = "productImages/book_150_cover.jpg";
item.setProductImage(mapper.createS3Link(amzn-s3-demo-bucket, myS3Key));

item.getProductImage().uploadFrom(new File("/file/path/book_150_cover.jpg"));

mapper.save(item);
```

The `S3Link` class provides many other methods for manipulating objects
in Amazon S3. For more information, see the [Javadocs for `S3Link`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/services/dynamodbv2/datamodeling/S3Link.html).

## getS3ClientCache

Returns the underlying `S3ClientCache` for accessing Amazon S3. An
`S3ClientCache` is a smart Map for `AmazonS3Client`
objects. If you have multiple clients, an `S3ClientCache` can help you
keep the clients organized by AWS Region, and can create new Amazon S3 clients on
demand.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Java 1.x: DynamoDBMapper

Supported Data Types
