# Using shards and metrics with DynamoDB Streams and Kinesis Data Streams

## Shard management considerations for Kinesis Data Streams

A Kinesis data stream counts its throughput in [shards](../../../streams/latest/dev/key-concepts.md). In Amazon Kinesis Data
streams, you can choose between an **on-demand** mode and a
**provisioned** mode for your data streams.

We recommend using on-demand mode for your Kinesis Data Stream if your DynamoDB write
workload is highly variable and unpredictable. With on-demand mode, there is no capacity
planning required as Kinesis Data Streams automatically manages the shards in order to
provide the necessary throughput.

For predictable workloads, you can use provisioned mode for your Kinesis Data Stream.
With provisioned mode, you must specify the number of shards for the data stream to
accommodate the change data capture records from DynamoDB. To determine the number of
shards that the Kinesis data stream will need to support your DynamoDB table, you need
the following input values:

- The average size of your DynamoDB table’s record in bytes
( `average_record_size_in_bytes`).

- The maximum number of write operations that your DynamoDB table will perform per
second. This includes create, delete, and update operations performed by your
applications, as well as automatically generated operations like Time to Live
generated delete operations( `write_throughput`).

- The percentage of update and overwrite operations that you perform on your
table, as compared to create or delete operations
( `percentage_of_updates`). Keep in mind that update and overwrite
operations replicate both the old and new images of the modified item to the
stream. This generates twice the DynamoDB item size.

You can calculate the number of shards ( `number_of_shards`) that your
Kinesis data stream needs by using the input values in the following formula:

```

number_of_shards = ceiling( max( ((write_throughput * (4+percentage_of_updates) * average_record_size_in_bytes) / 1024 / 1024), (write_throughput/1000)), 1)

```

For example, you might have a maximum throughput of 1040 write operations per second
( `write_throughput`) with an average record size of 800 bytes
( `average_record_size_in_bytes)`. If 25 percent of those write operations
are update operations ( `percentage_of_updates`), then you will need two
shards ( `number_of_shards`) to accommodate your DynamoDB streaming
throughput:

```

ceiling( max( ((1040 * (4+25/100) * 800)/ 1024 / 1024), (1040/1000)), 1).
```

Consider the following before using the formula to calculate the number of
shards required with provisioned mode for Kinesis data streams:

- This formula helps estimate the number of shards that will be required to
accommodate your DynamoDB change data records. It doesn't represent
the total number of shards needed in your Kinesis data stream, such as the
number of shards required to support additional Kinesis data stream
consumers.

- You may still experience read and write throughput exceptions in the
provisioned mode if you don't configure your data stream to handle your peak
throughput. In this case, you must manually scale your data stream to
accommodate your data traffic.

- This formula takes into consideration the additional bloat generated by DynamoDB
before streaming the change logs data records to Kinesis Data Stream.

To learn more about capacity modes on Kinesis Data Stream see [Choosing\
the Data Stream Capacity Mode](../../../streams/latest/dev/how-do-i-size-a-stream.md). To learn more about pricing difference
between different capacity modes, see [Amazon Kinesis Data Streams pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/pricing) .

## Monitoring change data capture with Kinesis Data Streams

DynamoDB provides several Amazon CloudWatch metrics to help you monitor the replication of change
data capture to Kinesis. For a full list of CloudWatch metrics, see [DynamoDB Metrics and dimensions](metrics-dimensions.md).

To determine whether your stream has sufficient capacity, we recommend that you
monitor the following items both during stream enabling and in production:

- `ThrottledPutRecordCount`: The number of records that were
throttled by your Kinesis data stream because of insufficient Kinesis data stream
capacity. You might experience some throttling during exceptional usage peaks,
but the `ThrottledPutRecordCount` should remain as low as possible.
DynamoDB retries sending throttled records to the Kinesis data stream, but this
might result in higher replication latency.

If you experience excessive and regular throttling, you might need to increase
the number of Kinesis stream shards proportionally to the observed write throughput
of your table. To learn more about determining the size of a Kinesis data stream,
see [Determining the Initial Size of a Kinesis Data Stream](../../../streams/latest/dev/amazon-kinesis-streams.md#how-do-i-size-a-stream).

- `AgeOfOldestUnreplicatedRecord`: The elapsed time since the oldest
item-level change yet to replicate to the Kinesis data stream appeared in the DynamoDB
table. Under normal operation, `AgeOfOldestUnreplicatedRecord` should
be in the order of milliseconds. This number grows based on unsuccessful
replication attempts when these are caused by customer-controlled configuration
choices.

If `AgeOfOldestUnreplicatedRecord` metric exceeds 168 hours,
replication of item-level changes from the DynamoDB table to Kinesis data stream will
be automatically disabled.

Customer-controlled configuration examples that leads to unsuccessful
replication attempts are an under-provisioned Kinesis data stream capacity that
leads to excessive throttling, or a manual update to your Kinesis data stream’s
access policies that prevents DynamoDB from adding data to your data stream. To
keep this metric as low as possible, you might need to ensure the right
provisioning of your Kinesis data stream capacity, and make sure that DynamoDB’s
permissions are unchanged.

- `FailedToReplicateRecordCount`: The number of records that DynamoDB
failed to replicate to your Kinesis data stream. Certain items larger than 34 KB
might expand in size to change data records that are larger than the 1 MB item
size limit of Kinesis Data Streams. This size expansion occurs when these larger than 34 KB
items include a large number of Boolean or empty attribute values. Boolean and
empty attribute values are stored as 1 byte in DynamoDB, but expand up to 5 bytes
when they’re serialized using standard JSON for Kinesis Data Streams replication. DynamoDB can’t
replicate such change records to your Kinesis data stream. DynamoDB skips these change
data records, and automatically continues replicating subsequent records.

You can create Amazon CloudWatch alarms that send an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) message for notification
when any of the preceding metrics exceed a specific threshold.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Getting started

Using IAM policies

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
