# CreateAppClient

The AWS AppFabric for productivity feature is in preview and is subject to change.

Creates an AppClient.

###### Topics

- [Request body](#API_CreateAppClient_request)

- [Response elements](#API_CreateAppClient_response)

## Request body

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

ParameterDescription

**appName**

The name of the app.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of
255.

Required: Yes

**clientToken**

Specifies a unique, case-sensitive identifier that you provide to ensure the idempotency
of the request. This lets you safely retry the request without accidentally performing the
same operation a second time. Passing the same value to a later call to an operation
requires that you also pass the same value for all other parameters. We recommend that you
use a [UUID type of\
value](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier).

If you don't provide this value, then AWS generates a random one for
you.

If you retry the operation with the same `ClientToken`, but with different
parameters, the retry fails with an `IdempotentParameterMismatch` error.

Type: String

Pattern:
`[a-f0-9]{8}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{12}`

Required: No

**customerManagedKeyIdentifier**

The ARN of the customer managed key generated by
AWS Key Management Service. The key is used to encrypt the
data.

If no key is specified, then an AWS managed key is used. A map of the key-value pairs of the tag or tags to assign to the resource.

For more information about AWS owned keys and
customer managed keys, see [Customer keys and AWS keys](../../../kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.md#key-mgmt) in the
_AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide_.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of
1011.

Pattern:
`arn:.+$|^[a-f0-9]{8}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{12}`

Required: No

**description**

A description for the app.

Type: String

Required: Yes

**iconUrl**

The URL to the icon or logo for the AppClient.

Type: String

Required: No

**redirectUrls**

The URI to redirect end users to after authorization. You
can add up to 5 redirectUrls. For example,
`https://localhost:8080`.

Type: Array of strings

Array Members: Minimum number of 1 item. Maximum number of
5 items.

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of
2048.

Pattern:
`(http|https):\/\/[-a-zA-Z0-9_:.\/]+`

Required: Yes

**starterUserEmails**

Starter email addresses for users who are allowed access
to receive insights until the AppClient is verified.

Type: Array of strings

Array Members: Fixed number of 1 item.

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 0. Maximum length of
320.

Pattern:
``[a-zA-Z0-9.!#$%&’*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+@[a-zA-Z0-9-]+(?:\.[a-zA-Z0-9-]+)*``

Required: Yes

**tags**

A map of the key-value pairs of the tag or tags to assign to the resource.

Type: Array of Tag objects

Array Members: Minimum number of 0 items. Maximum number
of 50 items.

Required: No

## Response elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 201
response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

ParameterDescription

**appClientSummary**

Contains a summary of the AppClient.

Type: [AppClientSummary](api-appclientsummary.md) object

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Authorize

DeleteAppClient

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
