# Configuring authorization and authentication to secure Event APIs

AWS AppSync Events offers the following authorization types to secure Event APIs: API keys,
Lambda, IAM, OpenID Connect, and Amazon Cognito user pools. Each option provides a different method of security.

1. **API Key authorization**: A simple key-based security
    option, with keys generated by the AppSync service.

2. **Lambda authorization**: Enables custom authorization
    logic, evaluated by an Lambda function .

3. **IAM authorization**: Utilizes AWS's signature version
    4 signing process, allowing fine-grained access control through IAM policies.

4. **OpenID Connect authorization**: Integrates with
    OIDC-compliant services for user authentication.

5. **Amazon Cognito user pools**: Implements group-based access control using
    Amazon Cognitos user management features.

## Authorization types

There are five ways you can authorize applications to interact with your AWS AppSync Event API.
You specify which authorization type you use by specifying one of the following authorization
type values in your AWS AppSync API or AWS CLI call:

- **`API_KEY`**

For using API keys.

- **`AWS_LAMBDA`**

For using an AWS Lambda function.

- **`AWS_IAM`**

For using AWS Identity and Access Management permissions.

- **`OPENID_CONNECT`**

For using your OpenID Connect provider.

- **`AMAZON_COGNITO_USER_POOLS`**

For using an Amazon Cognito user pool.

When you define your API, you configure the authorization mode to connect to your Event
API WebSocket. You also configure the default authorization modes to use when publishing and
subscribing to messages. You can use different authorization modes for each configuration. For
example, you might want your publisher to use IAM authorization for a backend process
running on an Amazon EC2 instance, but you want your clients to use an API key to subscribe to
messages.

Optionally, you can also configure the authorization mode to use for publishing and
subscribing to messages on a namespace. When defined, these settings override the default
configuration on your API. This enables you to have different settings for different
namespaces on your API.

When you save changes to your API configuration, AWS AppSync starts to propagate the changes.
Until your configuration change is propagated, AWS AppSync continues to serve your content from the
previous configuration. After your configuration change is propagated, AWS AppSync immediately
starts to serve your content based on the new configuration. While AWS AppSync is propagating your changes
for an API, we can't determine whether the API is serving your content based on the previous
configuration or the new configuration.

To learn more about using authorization types in your WebSocket operations, see [Understanding the Event API WebSocket protocol](event-api-websocket-protocol.md).

To learn about publishing events using the HTTP or WebSocket endpoint, see [Publishing events](publish-events.md).

## API\_KEY authorization

API Keys allow unauthenticated clients to securely use your API. An API key is a
hard-coded value in your application that is generated by the AWS AppSync service. You can rotate
API keys from the AWS Management Console, the AWS CLI, or from the [AWS AppSync API Reference](../../../../reference/appsync/latest/apireference/welcome.md).

API keys are configurable for up to 365 days, and you can extend an existing expiration
date for up to another 365 days from that day.

On the client, the API key is specified by the header `x-api-key`. For example,
if your `API_KEY` is `ABC123`, you can publish a message to a channel
using the HTTP endpoint via curl as follows:

```

curl --location "https://YOUR_EVENT_API_ENDPOINT/event" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header "x-api-key:ABC123" \
--data '{
    "channel":"/news",
    "events":["\"Breaking news!\""]
}'
```

## AWS\_LAMBDA authorization

You can implement your own API authorization logic using an AWS Lambda function. When you
use Lambda functions for authorization, the following constraint applies.

- A Lambda function authorizer must not return more than 5MB of contextual data.

For example, if your authorization token is `'ABC123'`, you can publish via
curl as follows:

```

curl --location "https://YOUR_EVENT_API_ENDPOINT/event" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header "Authorization:ABC123" \
--data '{
    "channel":"/news",
    "events":["\"Breaking news!\""]
}'
```

Lambda functions are called before connection, publish, and subscription attempts. When
caching is turned on, the return value of the function will be cached based on API ID,
channel, operation and the authentication token as applicable.

###### Note

For the connect operation (EVENT\_CONNECT), caching is based on API ID, operation, and
the authentication token because the channel name will not be available during the connect
operation. Subscribe operation (EVENT\_SUBSCRIBE) allows wildcards for channel names, in
which case the channel name is used as a literal string along with API ID, operation, and
the authentication token to cache Lambda function’s return value.

You can also specify a regular expression that validates authorization tokens before the
function is called. These regular expressions are used to validate that an authorization token
is of the correct format before your function is called. Any request using a token which does
not match this regular expression will be denied automatically.

Lambda functions used for authorization require a principal policy for
`appsync.amazonaws.com` to be applied on them to allow AWS AppSync to call them. This
action is done automatically in the AWS AppSync console; The AWS AppSync console does
_not_ remove the policy. For more information on attaching policies to
Lambda functions, see [Working with resource-based IAM policies in Lambda](../../../lambda/latest/dg/access-control-resource-based.md#permissions-resource-serviceinvoke) in the
_AWS Lambda Developer Guide_.

The Lambda function you specify will receive an event with the following shape:

```

{
  "authorizationToken": "ExampleAUTHtoken123123123",
  "requestContext": {
    "apiId": "aaaaaa123123123example123",
    "accountId": "111122223333",
    "requestId": "f4081827-1111-4444-5555-5cf4695f339f",
    "operation": "EVENT_PUBLISH",
    "channelNamespaceName": "news",
    "channel": "/news/latest"
  },
  "requestHeaders": {
    "header": "value"
  }
}
```

The operation property indicates the operation that is being evaluated and can have the
following values:

- `EVENT_CONNECT`

###### Note

For the `EVENT_CONNECT` operation, the `channelNamespaceName` and
`channel` properties are not set and will be `NULL`.

- `EVENT_SUBSCRIBE`

- `EVENT_PUBLISH`

The event object contains the headers that were sent in the request from the application
client to AWS AppSync.

The authorization function must return at least `isAuthorized`, a boolean
indicating whether the request is authorized to execute the operation on the Event API.

If this value is true, execution of the Event API continues. If this value is false, an
`UnauthorizedException` is raised.

**Accepted keys**

`isAuthorized` (boolean, required)

A boolean value indicating if the value in `authorizationToken` is
authorized to execute the operation on the Event API.

If this value is true, execution of the Event API continues. If this value is false,
an `UnauthorizedException` is raised

`handlerContext` (JSON object, optional)

A JSON object visible as `$ctx.identity.handlerContext` in your handlers.
The object is a map of strings. For example, if the following structure is returned by a
Lambda authorizer:

```

{
  "isAuthorized":true
  "handlerContext": {
    "banana":"very yellow",
    "apple":"very green"
  }
}
```

The value of `ctx.identity.handlerContext.apple` in handlers will be
`very green`. The `handlerContext` object only supports
key-value pairs. Nested keys are not supported.

###### Warning

The total size of this JSON object must not exceed 5MB.

`ttlOverride` (integer, optional)

The number of seconds that the response should be cached for. If no value is
returned, the value from the API is used. If this is 0, the response is not
cached.

Lambda authorizers have a standard timeout of 10 seconds but may time out earlier under peak traffic conditions. We recommend designing functions to execute in the shortest amount of time as possible (under 1s) to scale the performance of your API.

Multiple AWS AppSync APIs can share a single authentication Lambda function. Cross-account
authorizer use is not supported.

The following example describes a Lambda function that demonstrates the various
authentication and failure states that a Lambda function can have when used as an AWS AppSync
authorization mechanism.

```

def handler(event, context):
  # This is the authorization token passed by the client
  token = event.get('authorizationToken')
  # If a lambda authorizer throws an exception, it will be treated as unauthorized.
  if 'Fail' in token:
    raise Exception('Purposefully thrown exception in Lambda Authorizer.')

  if 'Authorized' in token and 'ReturnContext' in token:
    return {
      'isAuthorized': True,
      'handlerContext': {
        'key': 'value'
      }
    }

  # Authorized with no context
  if 'Authorized' in token:
    return {
      'isAuthorized': True
    }

  # never cache response
  if 'NeverCache' in token:
    return {
      'isAuthorized': True,
      'ttlOverride': 0
    }

  # not authorized
  if 'Unauthorized' in token:
    return {
      'isAuthorized': False
    }

  # if nothing is returned, then the authorization fails.
  return {}
```

## AWS\_IAM authorization

This authorization type enforces the [AWS signature version 4\
signing process](../../../../general/latest/gr/signature-version-4.md) on your API. You can associate AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) access policies
with this authorization type. Your application can leverage this association by using an
access key (which consists of an access key ID and secret access key) or by using short-lived,
temporary credentials provided by Amazon Cognito Federated Identities.

Use the following example if you want an IAM role that has permission to perform all
data operations on an API.

JSON

```json

{
    "Version":"2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "appsync:EventConnect",
                "appsync:EventPublish",
                "appsync:EventSubscribe"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:appsync:us-west-2:123456789012:apis/{APIID}/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}

```

Use the following example to restrict access to a specific API and a specific channel
namespace.

JSON

```json

{
    "Version":"2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "appsync:EventConnect"
            ],
            "Resource": [
            "arn:aws:appsync:us-east-1:111122223333:apis/{APIID}"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "appsync:EventPublish",
                "appsync:EventSubscribe"
            ],
            "Resource": [
            "arn:aws:appsync:us-east-1:111122223333:apis/{APIID}/channelNamespace/{NAME}"
            ]
        }
    ]
}

```

## OPENID\_CONNECT authorization

This authorization type enforces [OpenID connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) (OIDC)
tokens provided by an OIDC-compliant service. Your application can leverage users and
privileges defined by your OIDC provider for controlling access.

An Issuer URL is the only required configuration value that you provide to AWS AppSync (for
example, `https://auth.example.com`). This URL must be addressable over HTTPS.
AWS AppSync appends `/.well-known/openid-configuration` to the issuer URL and locates
the OpenID configuration at
`https://auth.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration` per the [OpenID Connect\
Discovery](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html) specification. It expects to retrieve an [RFC5785](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5785) compliant JSON document at this
URL. This JSON document must contain a `jwks_uri` key, which points to the JSON Web
Key Set (JWKS) document with the signing keys. AWS AppSync requires the JWKS to contain JSON fields
of `kty` and `kid`.

AWS AppSync supports a wide range of signing algorithms.

Signing algorithmsRS256RS384RS512PS256PS384PS512HS256HS384HS512ES256ES384ES512

We recommend that you use the RSA algorithms. Tokens issued by the provider must include
the time at which the token was issued ( `iat`) and may include the time at which it
was authenticated ( `auth_time`). You can provide TTL values for issued time
( `iatTTL`) and authentication time ( `authTTL`) in your OpenID Connect
configuration for additional validation. If your provider authorizes multiple applications,
you can also provide a regular expression ( `clientId`) that is used to authorize by
client ID. When the `clientId` is present in your OpenID Connect configuration,
AWS AppSync validates the claim by requiring the `clientId` to match with either the
`aud` or `azp` claim in the token.

To validate multiple client IDs use the pipeline operator (“\|”) which is an “or” in
regular expression. For example, if your OIDC application has four clients with client IDs
such as 0A1S2D, 1F4G9H, 1J6L4B, 6GS5MG, to validate only the first three client IDs, you would
place 1F4G9H\|1J6L4B\|6GS5MG in the client ID field.

## AMAZON\_COGNITO\_USER\_POOLS authorization

This authorization type enforces OIDC tokens provided by Amazon Cognito user pools. Your application can
leverage the users and groups in your handlers to apply custom business rules.

When using Amazon Cognito user pools, you can create groups that users belong to. This information is
encoded in a JWT token that your application sends to AWS AppSync in an authorization header with
each request.

```

curl --location "https://YOUR_EVENT_API_ENDPOINT/event" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header "Authorization:JWT_TOKEN" \
--data '{
    "channel":"/news",
    "events":["\"Breaking news!\""]
}'
```

## Circumventing SigV4 and OIDC token authorization limitations

The following methods can be used to circumvent the issue of not being able to use your
SigV4 signature or OIDC token as your Lambda authorization token when certain authorization
modes are enabled.

If you want to use the SigV4 signature as the Lambda authorization token when the
`AWS_IAM` and `AWS_LAMBDA` authorization modes are enabled for
AWS AppSync's API, do the following:

- To create a new Lambda authorization token, add random suffixes and/or prefixes to the
SigV4 signature.

- To retrieve the original SigV4 signature, update your Lambda function by removing the
random prefixes and/or suffixes from the Lambda authorization token. Then, use the
original SigV4 signature for authentication.

If you want to use the OIDC token as the Lambda authorization token when the
`OPENID_CONNECT` authorization mode or the `AMAZON_COGNITO_USER_POOLS`
and `AWS_LAMBDA` authorization modes are enabled for AWS AppSync's API, do the
following:

- To create a new Lambda authorization token, add random suffixes and/or prefixes to the
OIDC token. The Lambda authorization token should not contain a Bearer scheme
prefix.

- To retrieve the original OIDC token, update your Lambda function by removing the random
prefixes and/or suffixes from the Lambda authorization token. Then, use the original OIDC
token for authentication.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Adding a data source

Publishing events

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
