# Troubleshoot impaired Windows instance with the EC2Rescue GUI

EC2Rescue for Windows Server can perform the following analysis on **offline instances**:

OptionDescription

Diagnose and Rescue

EC2Rescue for Windows Server can detect and address issues with the following
service settings:

- System Time

- **RealTimeisUniversal** ‐ Detects whether the
`RealTimeisUniversal` registry key is enabled. If disabled,
Windows system time drifts when the timezone is set to a value other than
UTC.

- Windows Firewall

- **Domain networks** ‐ Detects whether this Windows
Firewall profile is enabled or disabled.

- **Private networks** ‐ Detects whether this
Windows Firewall profile is enabled or disabled.

- **Guest or public networks** ‐ Detects whether
this Windows Firewall profile is enabled or disabled.

- Remote Desktop

- **Service Start** ‐ Detects whether the Remote
Desktop service is enabled.

- **Remote Desktop Connections** ‐ Detects whether
this is enabled.

- **TCP Port** ‐ Detects which port the Remote
Desktop service is listening on.

- EC2Config (Windows Server 2012 R2 and earlier)

- **Installation** ‐ Detects which EC2Config version
is installed.

- **Service Start** ‐ Detects whether the EC2Config
service is enabled.

- **Ec2SetPassword** ‐ Generates a new administrator
password.

- **Ec2HandleUserData** ‐ Allows you to run a
user data script on the next boot of the instance.

- EC2Launch (Windows Server 2016 and later)

- **Installation** ‐ Detects which EC2Launch version
is installed.

- **Ec2SetPassword** ‐ Generates a new administrator
password.

- Network Interface

- **DHCP Service Startup** ‐ Detects whether the
DHCP service is enabled.

- **Ethernet detail** ‐ Displays information about
the network driver version, if detected.

- **DHCP on Ethernet** ‐ Detects whether DHCP is
enabled.

- Disk signature status

- **Signature on disk** and **Signature on Boot**
**Configuration Database (BCD)** ‐ Detects whether the disk
signature and the BCD signature are the same. If the values are different,
EC2Rescue attempts to overwrite the disk signature with the signature on
BCD.

Restore

Perform one of the following actions:

- **Last Known Good Configuration** ‐ Attempts to boot
the instance into the last known bootable state.

- **Restore registry from backup** ‐ Restores the
registry from `\Windows\System32\config\RegBack`.

Capture Logs

Allows you to capture logs on the instance for analysis.

EC2Rescue for Windows Server can collect the following data from **active and offline instances**:

ItemDescriptionEvent LogCollects application, system, and EC2Config event logs.RegistryCollects `SYSTEM` and `SOFTWARE`
hives.Windows Update Log

Collects log files generated by Windows Update.

###### Note

In Windows Server 2016 and later, the log is collected in Event
Tracing for Windows (ETW) format.

Sysprep LogCollects log files generated by the Windows System Preparation tool.Driver Setup LogCollects Windows SetupAPI logs ( `setupapi.dev.log` and
`setupapi.setup.log`).Boot ConfigurationCollects `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\BCD00000000` hive.Memory DumpCollects any memory dump files that exist on the instance.EC2Config FileCollects log files generated by the EC2Config service.EC2Launch FileCollects log files generated by the EC2Launch scripts.SSM Agent FileCollects log files generated by SSM Agent and Patch Manager logs.EC2 ElasticGPUs FileCollects event logs related to elastic GPUs.ECSCollects logs related to Amazon ECS.CloudEndureCollects log files related to CloudEndure Agent.AWS Replication Agent for MGN or DRS Log FilesCollects log files related to AWS Application Migration Service or AWS Elastic Disaster Recovery.

EC2Rescue for Windows Server can collect the following additional data from **active instances**:

ItemDescriptionSystem InformationCollects MSInfo32.Group Policy ResultCollects a Group Policy report.

## Analyze an offline instance

The **Offline Instance** option is useful for debugging boot issues
with Windows instances.

###### To perform an action on an offline instance

1. From a working Windows Server instance, download the [EC2Rescue for Windows Server](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2rescue/windows/EC2Rescue_latest.zip?x-download-source=docs) tool and extract the files.

You can run the following PowerShell command to download EC2Rescue without changing your Internet Explorer
    Enhanced Security Configuration (ESC):

```powershell

Invoke-WebRequest https://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2rescue/windows/EC2Rescue_latest.zip -OutFile $env:USERPROFILE\Desktop\EC2Rescue_latest.zip
```

This command will download the EC2Rescue .zip file to the desktop of the currently logged in user.

###### Note

If you receive an error when downloading the file, and you
are using Windows Server 2016 or earlier, TLS 1.2 might need
to be enabled for your PowerShell terminal. You can enable
TLS 1.2 for the current PowerShell session with the
following command and then try again:

```powershell

[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
```

2. Stop the faulty instance, if it is not stopped already.

3. Detach the EBS root volume from the faulty instance and attach the volume to a
    working Windows instance that has EC2Rescue for Windows Server installed.

4. Run the EC2Rescue for Windows Server tool on the working instance and choose
    **Offline Instance**.

5. Select the disk of the newly mounted volume and choose
    **Next**.

6. Confirm the disk selection and choose **Yes**.

7. Choose the offline instance option to perform and choose
    **Next**.

The EC2Rescue for Windows Server tool scans the volume and collects troubleshooting
information based on the selected log files.

## Collect data from an active instance

You can collect logs and other data from an active instance.

###### To collect data from an active instance

1. Connect to your Windows instance.

2. Download the [EC2Rescue for Windows Server](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2rescue/windows/EC2Rescue_latest.zip?x-download-source=docs) tool to your Windows instance and extract the files.

You can run the following PowerShell command to download EC2Rescue without changing your Internet Explorer
    Enhanced Security Configuration (ESC):

```powershell

Invoke-WebRequest https://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2rescue/windows/EC2Rescue_latest.zip -OutFile $env:USERPROFILE\Desktop\EC2Rescue_latest.zip

```

This command will download the EC2Rescue .zip file to the desktop of the currently logged in user.

###### Note

If you receive an error when downloading the file, and you
are using Windows Server 2016 or earlier, TLS 1.2 might need
to be enabled for your PowerShell terminal. You can enable
TLS 1.2 for the current PowerShell session with the
following command and then try again:

```powershell

[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
```

3. Open the EC2Rescue for Windows Server application and accept the license
    agreement.

4. Choose **Next**, **Current instance**,
    **Capture logs**.

5. Select the data items to collect and choose **Collect...**. Read
    the warning and choose **Yes** to continue.

6. Choose a file name and location for the ZIP file and choose
    **Save**.

7. After EC2Rescue for Windows Server completes, choose **Open Containing**
**Folder** to view the ZIP file.

8. Choose **Finish**.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

EC2Rescue for Windows instances

Troubleshoot using EC2Rescue CLI
