# Replicating existing objects with Batch Replication

S3 Batch Replication differs from live replication, which continuously and automatically
replicates new objects across Amazon S3 buckets. Instead, S3 Batch Replication occurs on demand
on existing objects. You can use S3 Batch Replication to replicate the following types of
objects:

- Objects that existed before a replication configuration was in place

- Objects that have previously been replicated

- Objects that have failed replication

You can replicate these objects on demand by using a Batch Operations job.

To get started with Batch Replication, you can:

- **Initiate Batch Replication for a new replication rule or**
**destination** – You can create a one-time Batch Replication job
when you're creating the first rule in a new replication configuration or when
you're adding a new destination bucket to an existing configuration through the Amazon S3
console.

- **Initiate Batch Replication for an existing replication**
**configuration** – You can create a new Batch Replication job by
using S3 Batch Operations through the Amazon S3 console, the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), the AWS
SDKs, or the Amazon S3 REST API.

When the Batch Replication job finishes, you receive a completion report. For more
information about how to use this report to examine the job, see [Tracking job status and completion reports](batch-ops-job-status.md).

## S3 Batch Replication considerations

Before using S3 Batch Replication, review the following list of considerations:

- Your source bucket must have an existing replication configuration. To enable
replication, see [Setting up live replication overview](replication-how-setup.md) and [Examples for configuring live replication](replication-example-walkthroughs.md).

- If you have S3 Lifecycle configured for your bucket, we recommend disabling
your lifecycle rules while the Batch Replication job is active. Doing so helps
ensure parity between the source and destination buckets. Otherwise, these
buckets could diverge, and the destination bucket won't be an exact replica of
the source bucket. For example, consider the following scenario:

- Your source bucket has multiple versions of an object and a delete
marker on that object.

- Your source and destination buckets have a lifecycle configuration to
remove expired delete markers.

In this scenario, Batch Replication might replicate the delete marker to the
destination bucket before replicating the object versions. This behavior could
result in your lifecycle configuration marking the delete marker as expired and
the delete marker being removed from the destination bucket before the object
versions are replicated.

- The AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role that you specify to run the Batch Operations job must
have the necessary permissions to perform the underlying Batch Replication
operation. For more information about creating IAM roles, see [Configuring an IAM role for S3 Batch Replication](s3-batch-replication-policies.md).

- Batch Replication requires a manifest, which can be generated by Amazon S3. The
generated manifest must be stored in the same AWS Region as the source bucket.
If you choose not to generate the manifest, you can supply an Amazon S3 Inventory
report or CSV file that contains the objects that you want to replicate. For
more information, see [Specifying a manifest for a Batch Replication job](#batch-replication-manifest).

- Batch Replication doesn't support re-replicating objects that were deleted by
specifying the version ID of the object from the destination bucket. To
re-replicate these objects, you can copy the source objects in place with a
Batch Copy job. Copying those objects in place creates new versions of the
objects in the source bucket and automatically initiates replication to the
destination bucket. Deleting and recreating the destination bucket doesn't
initiate replication.

For more information about Batch Copy, see [Examples that use Batch Operations to\
copy objects](batch-ops-examples-copy.md).

- If you're using a replication rule on the source bucket, make sure to [update your\
replication configuration](replication-walkthrough-2.md) by granting the IAM role that's attached
to the replication rule the proper permissions to replicate objects. This IAM
role must have the necessary permissions to perform replication on both the
source and destination buckets.

- If you submit multiple Batch Replication jobs for the same bucket within a
short time frame, Amazon S3 runs those jobs concurrently.

- If you submit multiple Batch Replication jobs for two different buckets, be
aware that Amazon S3 might not run all jobs concurrently. If you exceed the number of
Batch Replication jobs that can run at one time on your account, Amazon S3 pauses
the lower priority jobs to work on the higher priority ones. After the higher
priority jobs are completed, any paused jobs become active again.

- Batch Replication isn't supported for objects that are stored in the
S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage
classes.

- To batch replicate S3 Intelligent-Tiering objects that are stored in the
Archive Access or Deep Archive Access storage tiers, you must first initiate a
[restore](intelligent-tiering-managing.md#restore-data-from-int-tier-archive) request and wait until the objects are moved to the
Frequent Access tier.

- A single Batch Replication job can support a manifest with up to 20 billion objects.

- If you use S3 Batch Replication to replicate datasets cross region and your
objects previously had their server-side encryption type updated from SSE-S3
to SSE-KMS, you may need additional permissions. On the source region bucket,
you must have `kms:decrypt` permissions. Then, you will need the
`kms:decrypt` and `kms:encrypt` permissions for the bucket
in the destination region. For more information, see [Replicating encrypted\
objects](replication-config-for-kms-objects.md).

## Specifying a manifest for a Batch Replication job

A manifest is an Amazon S3 object that contains the object keys that you want Amazon S3 to act
upon. If you want to create a Batch Replication job, you must supply either a
user-generated manifest or have Amazon S3 generate a manifest based on your replication
configuration.

If you supply a user-generated manifest, it must be in the form of an Amazon S3 Inventory
report or a CSV file. If the objects in your manifest are in a versioned bucket, you
must specify the version IDs for the objects. Only the object with the version ID that's
specified in the manifest will be replicated. To learn more about specifying a manifest,
see [Specifying a manifest](batch-ops-create-job.md#specify-batchjob-manifest).

If you choose to have Amazon S3 generate a manifest file on your behalf, the objects listed
use the same source bucket, prefix, and tags as your replication configurations on the
source bucket. With a generated manifest, Amazon S3 replicates all eligible versions of your
objects.

###### Note

If you choose to have Amazon S3 generate the manifest, the manifest must be stored in
the same AWS Region as the source bucket.

## Filters for a Batch Replication job

When creating your Batch Replication job, you can optionally specify additional
filters, such as the object creation date and replication status, to reduce the scope of
the job.

You can filter objects to replicate based on the
`ObjectReplicationStatuses` value, by providing one or more of the
following values:

- `"NONE"` – Indicates that Amazon S3 has never attempted to
replicate the object before.

- `"FAILED"` – Indicates that Amazon S3 has attempted, but failed,
to replicate the object before.

- `"COMPLETED"` – Indicates that Amazon S3 has successfully
replicated the object before.

- `"REPLICA"` – Indicates that this object is a replica that
Amazon S3 has replicated from another source bucket.

For more information about replication statuses, see [Getting replication status information](replication-status.md).

If you don't filter your Batch Replication job, Batch Operations attempts to replicate all
objects (no matter their `ObjectReplicationStatus`) in your manifest that
match the rules in your replication configuration, except for certain objects that
aren't replicated by default. For more information, see [What isn't replicated with replication configurations?](replication-what-is-isnot-replicated.md#replication-what-is-not-replicated)

Depending on your goal, you might set `ObjectReplicationStatuses` to one or
more of the following values:

- To replicate only existing objects that have never been replicated, only
include `"NONE"`.

- To retry replicating only objects that previously failed to replicate, only
include `"FAILED"`.

- To both replicate existing objects and retry replicating objects that
previously failed to replicate, include both `"NONE"` and
`"FAILED"`.

- To backfill a destination bucket with objects that have been replicated to
another destination, include `"COMPLETED"`.

- To replicate objects that were previously replicated, include
`"REPLICA"`.

## Batch Replication completion report

When you create a Batch Replication job, you can request a CSV completion report.
This report shows the objects, replication success or failure codes, outputs, and
descriptions. For more information about job tracking and completion reports, see [Completion reports](batch-ops-job-status.md#batch-ops-completion-report).

For a list of replication failure codes and descriptions, see [Amazon S3 replication failure reasons](replication-metrics-events.md#replication-failure-codes).

For information about troubleshooting Batch Replication, see [Batch Replication errors](replication-troubleshoot.md#troubleshoot-batch-replication-errors).

## Getting started with Batch Replication

To learn more about how to use Batch Replication, see [Tutorial: Replicating existing objects in your Amazon S3 buckets with S3 Batch Replication](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/replicate-existing-objects-with-amazon-s3-batch-replication).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Managing or pausing live replication

Configuring IAM role and policy

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
