# Descriptions of Amazon Q Developer dashboard usage metrics

The following table describes the metrics shown in the Amazon Q Developer dashboard.

For more information about the dashboard, see [Viewing Amazon Q Developer user activity on the dashboard](dashboard.md).

Metric nameDescription

**Total subscriptions**

Shows the total subscriptions in the current AWS account, as well as subscriptions in member
accounts, if you're signed in to a management account for which [organization-wide\
visibility of subscriptions](subscribe-visibility.md) has been enabled.

**Active subscriptions**

Shows the total active subscriptions in the current AWS account, as well as subscriptions in
member accounts, if you're signed in to a management account for which [organization-wide\
visibility of subscriptions](subscribe-visibility.md) has been enabled.

_Active subscriptions_ are those belonging to users who have started using Amazon Q
in their integrated development environment (IDE). You are being charged for these subscriptions. For
more information about active subscriptions, see [Amazon Q Developer subscription statuses](q-admin-setup-subscribe-status.md).

**Pending subscriptions**

Shows the total pending subscriptions in the current AWS account, as well as subscriptions in
member accounts, if you're signed in to a management account for which [organization-wide\
visibility of subscriptions](subscribe-visibility.md) has been enabled.

_Pending subscriptions_ are those belonging to users who have not yet started
using Amazon Q in their IDE. You are not being charged for these subscriptions. For more information about
pending subscriptions, see [Amazon Q Developer subscription statuses](q-admin-setup-subscribe-status.md).

**Accepted lines of code**

Shows a pie chart that indicates the lines of code accepted by users, broken down by Amazon Q feature
(feature development, documentation generation, unit test generation, and so on).

**Active users**

Shows a line graph that indicates the number of subscribers who were actively using Amazon Q in the IDE
during a specified date range.

**Inline suggestions**

Shows the total number of suggestions and accepted suggestions for the [inline suggestions](inline-suggestions.md) feature. The percentage of accepted suggestions
is calculated by taking the number of suggestions accepted by users, and dividing it by the total
suggestions generated by Amazon Q. The total suggestions count includes suggestions that were accepted and
actively rejected; it does not include suggestions that were dismissed because the user continued to
type or started performing other operations in their IDE.

**Inline chat**

Shows the total number of suggestions and number of accepted suggestions for the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) feature. The percentage of accepted suggestions is
calculated by taking the number of suggestions accepted by users, and dividing it by the total
suggestions generated by Amazon Q.

**Chat in the IDE** – **Total messages sent**

Shows the total number of responses from Amazon Q in the [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)
window of the user's IDE.

**Feature development** – **Acceptance**
**rate**

Shows the acceptance rate for the [Feature development](q-in-ide-chat.md#develop-code)
feature. The acceptance rate is calculated by taking the number of lines of code accepted by users, and
dividing it by the total lines of code suggested by Amazon Q.

**Document generation**

Shows the total number of documentation files (such as READMEs and supporting files) created and
updated by the [Document generation](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation) feature. The acceptance
rates equal the number of file updates or creations accepted by users, divided by
the total number of files updates or creations suggested by Amazon Q.

**Unit test generation**

Shows the total number of unit tests generated by the [Unit test\
generation](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests) feature and the number of unit tests accepted by users. The acceptance rate
is calculated by taking the number of unit tests accepted by users, and dividing
it by the total number of unit tests generated by Amazon Q.

**Code reviews**

Shows the total number of code reviews and findings reports generated by the [code review](code-reviews.md) feature. The **Total code reviews (manual**
**only)** and **Findings report (manual only)** refer to the code
reviews and finding reports that are _not_ [auto-generated](start-review.md#auto-scan).

**Code fixes**

Shows the total number of [code fixes](address-code-issues.md) generated by Amazon Q.
The acceptance rate is calculated by taking the number of code fixes accepted by
users, and dividing it by the total number of code fixes suggested by Amazon Q.

**Code transformation**

Shows the total number code transformations performed by the [transformation](address-code-issues.md) feature, and the number of lines of code processed.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Viewing usage metrics (dashboard)

Disabling the dashboard

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
