# Monitoring Amazon Q Developer with Amazon CloudWatch

###### Note

The metrics discussed here only pertain to using [Amazon Q in\
your IDE](q-in-ide.md).

You can monitor Amazon Q Developer using CloudWatch, which collects raw data and processes it into
readable, near real-time metrics. These statistics are kept for 15 months, so that you can
access historical information and gain a better perspective on how Amazon Q is performing.
You can also set alarms that watch for certain thresholds, and send notifications or take
actions when those thresholds are met. For more information, see the [Amazon CloudWatch User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring).

The Amazon Q Developer service reports the following metrics in the `AWS/Q`
namespace.

DimensionsMetricUse case or explanation

Count

Invocations

You want to determine how many invocations have been counted over
time.

UserCount

DailyActiveUserTrend

You want to determine the number of active users per day.

SubscriptionUserCount

SubscriptionCount

You want to determine the number of users with paying
subscriptions.

UniqueUserCount

MonthlyActiveUniqueUsers

You want to determine the number of users who are active in a given
month.

ProgrammingLanguage, SuggestionState, CompletionType

GeneratedLineCount

You want to determine the number of lines generated by Amazon Q Developer.

ProgrammingLanguage, SuggestionState, CompletionType

SuggestionReferenceCount

You want to determine the number of recommendation triggers with
references that have taken place.

ProgrammingLanguage

CodeScanCount

You want to determine the number of code scans that have taken
place.

ProgrammingLanguage

TotalCharacterCount

The number of characters in your file, including all suggestions from
Amazon Q Developer.

ProgrammingLanguage

CodeWhispererCharacterCount

The number of characters generated by Amazon Q Developer.

To aggregate Invocations, use the Sum statistic.

To aggregate DailyActiveUserTrend, use the Sum statistic, and use "1 Day" as the
period.

To aggregate SubscriptionCount, use the Sum statistic.

To aggregate MonthlyActiveUniqueUsers use the Sum statistic, and use "30 Days" as the
period.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

With AWS CloudTrail

Identifying actions by specific users
