# User activity report metrics

The following table describes the metrics that are included in the user activity reports generated
by Amazon Q Developer.

For more information about these reports, see [Viewing the activity of specific users in Amazon Q Developer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/q-admin-user-telemetry.html).

Metric nameDescription

Chat\_AICodeLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric includes
code that was generated through the [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)
(not [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md)) and inserted into
the IDE.

Chat\_MessagesInteracted

Number of chat messages where the user has interacted positively with Amazon Q.
Examples of positive interactions: clicking a link, inserting a suggestion, and
upvoting a response from Amazon Q. This metric includes messages that were generated by
[Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md) (not [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md)).

Chat\_MessagesSent

Number of messages sent to and from Amazon Q. This metric includes the user prompts
and Amazon Q responses in the [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md) (not [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md)).

CodeFix\_AcceptanceEventCount

Number of code fixes suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
applies to code fixes generated through the [code review\
feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeFix\_AcceptedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric applies to
lines of code generated through the [code review\
feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeFix\_GeneratedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to lines of code generated
through the [code review feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeFix\_GenerationEventCount

Number of code fixes suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to code fixes
generated through the [code review feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeReview\_FailedEventCount

Number of code issues that were found but for which Amazon Q could not suggest a code
fix. This metric applies to code issues generated using the [code review feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeReview\_FindingsCount

Number of code issues found by Amazon Q. This metric applies to code issues found
using the [code review feature](code-reviews.md).

CodeReview\_SucceededEventCount

Number of code issues that were found and for which Amazon Q was able to generate a
suggested code fix. This metric applies to code issues found using the [code review feature](code-reviews.md).

Dev\_AcceptanceEventCount

Number of code features suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
applies to code features generated through the [/dev\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#develop-code).

Dev\_AcceptedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric applies to
lines of code generated through the [/dev\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#develop-code).

Dev\_GeneratedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to lines of code generated
through the [/dev command](q-in-ide-chat.md#develop-code).

Dev\_GenerationEventCount

Number of code features suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to code features
generated through the [/dev command](q-in-ide-chat.md#develop-code).

DocGeneration\_AcceptedFileUpdates

Number of file updates suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
applies to file updates generated through the [/doc\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_AcceptedFilesCreations

Number of file creations suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
applies to file creations generated through the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_AcceptedLineAdditions

Lines of documentation additions suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This
metric applies to documentation generated through the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_AcceptedLineUpdates

Lines of documentation updates suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This
metric applies to documentation generated using the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_EventCount

Number of times the user engaged with Amazon Q using the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_RejectedFileCreations

Number of file creations suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This metric
applies to file creations generated through the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_RejectedFileUpdates

Number of file updates suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This metric
applies to file updates generated through the [/doc\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_RejectedLineAdditions

Lines of documentation additions suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This
metric applies to documentation generated through the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

DocGeneration\_RejectedLineUpdates

Lines of documentation updates suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This
metric applies to documentation generated using the [/doc command](q-in-ide-chat.md#doc-generation).

InlineChat\_AcceptedLineAdditions

Lines of code additions suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
includes code additions generated through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q\
chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_AcceptedLineDeletions

Lines of code deletions suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
includes code deletions suggested through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q\
chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_AcceptanceEventCount

Number of [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)) suggestions that were accepted by the
user.

InlineChat\_DismissalEventCount

Number of [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)) suggestions that were abandoned by
the user. By 'abandoned', we mean that the code suggestion was displayed but the
user kept typing or performing other operations in their IDE, and did not
explicitly accept or reject the code suggestion.

InlineChat\_DismissedLineAdditions

Lines of code additions suggested by Amazon Q and abandoned by the user. By
'abandoned', we mean that the code suggestion was displayed but the user kept
typing or performing other operations in their IDE, and did not explicitly accept
or reject the code suggestion. This metric includes code additions generated
through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_DismissedLineDeletions

Lines of code deletions suggested by Amazon Q and abandoned by the user. By
'abandoned', we mean that the code suggestion was displayed but the user kept
typing or performing other operations in their IDE, and did not explicitly accept
or reject the code suggestion. This metric includes code deletions suggested
through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_EventCount

Number of [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)) sessions that the user engaged
in.

InlineChat\_RejectedLineAdditions

Lines of code additions suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This metric
includes code additions generated through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q\
chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_RejectedLineDeletions

Lines of code deletions suggested by Amazon Q and rejected by the user. This metric
includes code deletions suggested through the [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q\
chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)).

InlineChat\_RejectionEventCount

Number of [inline chat](q-in-ide-inline-chat.md) (not [Amazon Q chat](q-in-ide-chat.md)) suggestions that were rejected by the
user.

Inline\_AICodeLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric includes
code that was accepted as [inline\
suggestions](inline-suggestions.md).

Inline\_AcceptanceCount

Number of [inline suggestions](inline-suggestions.md) accepted
by the user.

Inline\_SuggestionsCount

Number of [inline suggestions](inline-suggestions.md) displayed
to the user.

TestGeneration\_AcceptedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric applies to
lines of code generated through the [/test\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests).

TestGeneration\_AcceptedTests

Number of unit tests suggested by Amazon Q and accepted by the user. This metric
applies to unit tests generated through the [/test\
command](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests).

TestGeneration\_EventCount

Number of times the user engaged with Amazon Q through the [/test command](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests).

TestGeneration\_GeneratedLines

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to lines of code generated
through the [/test command](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests).

TestGeneration\_GeneratedTests

Number of unit tests suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to unit tests
generated through the [/test command](q-in-ide-chat.md#unit-tests).

Transformation\_EventCount

Number of times the user engaged with Amazon Q through the [/transform command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/transform-in-IDE.html), excluding the times when
the when the user [transformed code on the command\
line](transform-cli.md).

Transformation\_LinesGenerated

Lines of code suggested by Amazon Q. This metric applies to code generated through
the [/transform command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/transform-in-IDE.html), excluding code
[transformed on the command line](transform-cli.md).

Transformation\_LinesIngested

Lines of code provided to Amazon Q for transformation. This metric applies to code
that is provided through the [/transform\
command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/transform-in-IDE.html), excluding code provided for [transformation on the command line](transform-cli.md), or for an [SQL conversion](transform-sql.md).

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Viewing per-user activity

Logging users' prompts
