# RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionFailedEventAttributes

Provides the details of the `RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionFailed` event.

## Contents

**cause**

The cause of the failure. This information is generated by the system and can be useful for diagnostic purposes.

###### Note

If `cause` is set to `OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`, the decision failed
because it lacked sufficient permissions. For details and example IAM policies, see [Using IAM to Manage Access to Amazon SWF Workflows](../../../../services/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/swf-dev-iam.md)
in the _Amazon SWF Developer Guide_.

Type: String

Valid Values: `UNKNOWN_EXTERNAL_WORKFLOW_EXECUTION | REQUEST_CANCEL_EXTERNAL_WORKFLOW_EXECUTION_RATE_EXCEEDED | OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`

Required: Yes

**decisionTaskCompletedEventId**

The ID of the `DecisionTaskCompleted` event corresponding to the decision task that resulted in the
`RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution` decision for this cancellation request. This information can be useful for diagnosing problems by tracing back the chain of
events leading up to this event.

Type: Long

Required: Yes

**initiatedEventId**

The ID of the `RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiated` event corresponding to the
`RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution` decision to cancel this external workflow execution. This
information can be useful for diagnosing problems by tracing back the chain of events leading up to this
event.

Type: Long

Required: Yes

**workflowId**

The `workflowId` of the external workflow to which the cancel request was to be delivered.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 256.

Required: Yes

**control**

The data attached to the event that the decider can use in subsequent workflow tasks.
This data isn't sent to the workflow execution.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Maximum length of 32768.

Required: No

**runId**

The `runId` of the external workflow execution.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Maximum length of 64.

Required: No

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/swf-2012-01-25/requestcancelexternalworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/swf-2012-01-25/requestcancelexternalworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/swf-2012-01-25/requestcancelexternalworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionDecisionAttributes

RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiatedEventAttributes

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
