# ScheduleActivityTaskFailedEventAttributes

Provides the details of the `ScheduleActivityTaskFailed` event.

## Contents

**activityId**

The activityId provided in the `ScheduleActivityTask` decision that failed.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 256.

Required: Yes

**activityType**

The activity type provided in the `ScheduleActivityTask` decision that failed.

Type: [ActivityType](api-activitytype.md) object

Required: Yes

**cause**

The cause of the failure. This information is generated by the system and can be useful for diagnostic purposes.

###### Note

If `cause` is set to `OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`, the decision failed
because it lacked sufficient permissions. For details and example IAM policies, see [Using IAM to Manage Access to Amazon SWF Workflows](../../../../services/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/swf-dev-iam.md)
in the _Amazon SWF Developer Guide_.

Type: String

Valid Values: `ACTIVITY_TYPE_DEPRECATED | ACTIVITY_TYPE_DOES_NOT_EXIST | ACTIVITY_ID_ALREADY_IN_USE | OPEN_ACTIVITIES_LIMIT_EXCEEDED | ACTIVITY_CREATION_RATE_EXCEEDED | DEFAULT_SCHEDULE_TO_CLOSE_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_TASK_LIST_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_SCHEDULE_TO_START_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_START_TO_CLOSE_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_HEARTBEAT_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`

Required: Yes

**decisionTaskCompletedEventId**

The ID of the `DecisionTaskCompleted` event corresponding to the decision that resulted in the
scheduling of this activity task. This information can be useful for diagnosing problems by tracing back the chain of
events leading up to this event.

Type: Long

Required: Yes

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/swf-2012-01-25/scheduleactivitytaskfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/swf-2012-01-25/scheduleactivitytaskfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/swf-2012-01-25/scheduleactivitytaskfailedeventattributes.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ScheduleActivityTaskDecisionAttributes

ScheduleLambdaFunctionDecisionAttributes

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
