# StartChildWorkflowExecutionFailedEventAttributes

Provides the details of the `StartChildWorkflowExecutionFailed` event.

## Contents

**cause**

The cause of the failure. This information is generated by the system and can be useful for diagnostic purposes.

###### Note

When `cause` is set to `OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`, the decision fails because it lacks sufficient permissions.
For details and example IAM policies, see [Using IAM to Manage Access to Amazon SWF Workflows](../../../../services/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/swf-dev-iam.md) in the _Amazon SWF Developer Guide_.

Type: String

Valid Values: `WORKFLOW_TYPE_DOES_NOT_EXIST | WORKFLOW_TYPE_DEPRECATED | OPEN_CHILDREN_LIMIT_EXCEEDED | OPEN_WORKFLOWS_LIMIT_EXCEEDED | CHILD_CREATION_RATE_EXCEEDED | WORKFLOW_ALREADY_RUNNING | DEFAULT_EXECUTION_START_TO_CLOSE_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_TASK_LIST_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_TASK_START_TO_CLOSE_TIMEOUT_UNDEFINED | DEFAULT_CHILD_POLICY_UNDEFINED | OPERATION_NOT_PERMITTED`

Required: Yes

**decisionTaskCompletedEventId**

The ID of the `DecisionTaskCompleted` event corresponding to the decision task that resulted in the `StartChildWorkflowExecution` [Decision](api-decision.md) to request this child workflow execution. This information can be useful for diagnosing problems by tracing back the chain of events.

Type: Long

Required: Yes

**initiatedEventId**

When the `cause` is `WORKFLOW_ALREADY_RUNNING`, `initiatedEventId` is the ID of the `StartChildWorkflowExecutionInitiated`
event that corresponds to the `StartChildWorkflowExecution` [Decision](api-decision.md) to start the workflow execution. You can use this information to diagnose
problems by tracing back the chain of events leading up to this event.

When the `cause` isn't `WORKFLOW_ALREADY_RUNNING`, `initiatedEventId` is set to `0` because the
`StartChildWorkflowExecutionInitiated` event doesn't exist.

Type: Long

Required: Yes

**workflowId**

The `workflowId` of the child workflow execution.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 256.

Required: Yes

**workflowType**

The workflow type provided in the `StartChildWorkflowExecution` [Decision](api-decision.md) that failed.

Type: [WorkflowType](api-workflowtype.md) object

Required: Yes

**control**

The data attached to the event that the decider can use in subsequent workflow tasks.
This data isn't sent to the child workflow execution.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Maximum length of 32768.

Required: No

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/swf-2012-01-25/startchildworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/swf-2012-01-25/startchildworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/swf-2012-01-25/startchildworkflowexecutionfailedeventattributes.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

StartChildWorkflowExecutionDecisionAttributes

StartChildWorkflowExecutionInitiatedEventAttributes

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
