# Improving query performance for Aurora PostgreSQL with Aurora Optimized Reads

You can achieve faster query processing for Aurora PostgreSQL with Aurora Optimized Reads. An
Aurora PostgreSQL DB instance that uses Aurora Optimized Reads delivers up to 8x improved query latency
and up to 30% cost savings for applications with large datasets, that exceed the memory
capacity of a DB instance.

###### Topics

- [Overview of Aurora Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL](#AuroraPostgreSQL.optimized.reads.overview)

- [Using Aurora Optimized Reads](#AuroraPostgreSQL.optimized.reads.using)

- [Use cases for Aurora Optimized Reads](#AuroraPostgreSQL.optimized.reads.usecases)

- [Monitoring DB instances that use Aurora Optimized Reads](#AuroraPostgreSQL.optimized.reads.monitoring)

- [Best practices for Aurora Optimized Reads](#AuroraPostgreSQL.optimized.reads.bestpractices)

## Overview of Aurora Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL

Aurora Optimized Reads is available by default when you create a DB cluster that uses
Graviton-based R6gd, R8gd, and Intel-based R6id instances with non-volatile memory
express (NVMe) storage. It is available from the following PostgreSQL versions:

- 14.12 and higher versions, 15.7 and higher versions, 16.3 and higher versions,
17.4 and higher versions for R8gd instances

- 14.9 and higher versions, 15.4 and higher versions, 16.1 and all higher
versions for R6gd and R6id instances

Aurora Optimized Reads supports two capabilities: tiered cache and temporary
objects.

Optimized Reads-enabled tiered cache  \- Using tiered
cache, you can extend your DB instance caching capacity by up to 5x the instance memory. This
automatically maintains the cache to contain the most recent, transactionally consistent
data, freeing applications from the overhead of managing the data currency of external
result-set based caching solutions. It offers up to 8x better latency for queries that
were previously fetching data from Aurora storage.

In Aurora, the value for `shared_buffers` in the default parameter group is
usually set to around 75% of the available memory. However, for the r8gd, r6gd, and r6id
instance types, Aurora reduces the `shared_buffers` space by 4.5% to host the
metadata for the Optimized Reads cache.

Optimized Reads-enabled temporary objects \- Using
temporary objects, you can achieve faster query processing by placing the temporary
files that are generated by PostgreSQL on the local NVMe storage. This reduces the
traffic to Elastic Block Storage (EBS) over the network. It offers up to 2x better
latency and throughput for advanced queries that sort, join, or merge large volumes of
data that do not fit within the memory capacity available on a DB instance.

On an Aurora I/O-Optimized cluster, Optimized Reads makes use of both tiered cache and
temporary objects on NVMe storage. With Optimized Reads-enabled tiered cache capability,
Aurora allocates 2x the instance memory for temporary objects, approximately 10% of the
storage for internal operations and the remaining storage as tiered cache. On an Aurora
Standard cluster, Optimized Reads makes use of only temporary objects.

Aurora I/O-Optimized clusters allows you to resize the allocated space for Optimized
Reads-enabled temporary objects using the dynamic parameter
`aurora_temp_space_size` at the instance level. This resizing feature is
available from the following PostgreSQL versions:

- 16.8 and all higher versions

- 15.12 and higher 15 versions

- 14.17 and higher 14 versions

With this parameter, you can resize the capacity from 2x up to 6x of instance memory
without requiring database engine restart. When you expand temporary object space, the
change takes effect immediately, regardless of concurrent workloads. However, when you
reduce the space, the adjustment completes only after there is sufficient unused space
in temporary objects to accommodate the new size request. After you resize Optimized
Reads-enabled temporary objects, the tiered cache automatically adjusts to use any
available space.

EngineCluster storage configurationOptimized Reads-enabled temporary objectsOptimized Reads-enabled tiered cacheVersions supportedAurora PostgreSQL-Compatible EditionStandardYesNo

- 14.9 and higher versions, 15.4 and higher
versions, 16.1 and all higher versions for r6gd and r6id
instances

- 14.12 and higher versions, 15.7 and higher versions,
16.3 and higher versions, 17.4 and higher versions for r8gd
instances

I/O-OptimizedYesYes

###### Note

A switch between IO-Optimized and Standard clusters on a NVMe-based DB instance
class causes an immediate database engine restart.

In Aurora PostgreSQL, use the `temp_tablespaces` parameter to configure the
table space where the temporary objects are stored.

To check whether the temporary objects are configured, use the following
command:

```nohighlight

postgres=> show temp_tablespaces;
temp_tablespaces
---------------------
aurora_temp_tablespace
(1 row)

```

The `aurora_temp_tablespace` is a tablespace configured by Aurora that
points to the NVMe local storage. You can't modify this parameter or switch back to
Amazon EBS storage.

To check whether optimized reads cache is turned on, use the following command:

```nohighlight

postgres=> show shared_preload_libraries;
                 shared_preload_libraries
--------------------------------------------------------
rdsutils,pg_stat_statements,aurora_optimized_reads_cache

```

## Using Aurora Optimized Reads

When you provision an Aurora PostgreSQL DB instance with one of the NVMe-based DB instances, the DB instance
automatically uses Aurora Optimized Reads.

To turn on Aurora Optimized Reads, do one of the following:

- Create an Aurora PostgreSQL DB cluster using one of the NVMe-based DB instance classes. For
more information, see [Creating an Amazon Aurora DB cluster](aurora-createinstance.md).

- Modify an existing Aurora PostgreSQL DB cluster to use one of the NVMe-based DB instance
classes. For more information, see [Modifying an Amazon Aurora DB cluster](aurora-modifying.md).

Aurora Optimized Reads is available in all AWS Regions where one or more of the DB instance
classes with local NVMe SSD storage are supported. For more information, see [Amazon AuroraDB instance classes](concepts-dbinstanceclass.md).

To switch back to a non-optimized reads Aurora instance, modify the DB instance class of your
Aurora instance to the similar instance class without NVMe ephemeral storage for your
database workloads. For example, if the current DB instance class is db.r6gd.4xlarge, choose
db.r6g.4xlarge to switch back. For more information, see [Modifying an\
Aurora DB instance](../userguide/overview-dbinstance-modifying.md).

## Use cases for Aurora Optimized Reads

Optimized Reads-enabled tiered cache

The following are some use cases that can benefit from Optimized Reads with tiered
cache:

- Internet scale applications such as payments processing, billing, e-commerce
with strict performance SLAs.

- Real-time reporting dashboards that run hundreds of point queries for
metrics/data collection.

- Generative AI applications with the pgvector extension to search exact or
nearest neighbors across millions of vector embeddings.

Optimized Reads-enabled temporary objects

The following are some use cases that can benefit from Optimized Reads with temporary
objects:

- Analytical queries that include Common Table Expressions (CTEs), derived
tables, and grouping operations.

- Read replicas that handle the unoptimized queries for an application.

- On-demand or dynamic reporting queries with complex operations such as GROUP
BY and ORDER BY that can't always use appropriate indexes.

- `CREATE INDEX` or `REINDEX` operations for
sorting.

- Other workloads that use internal temporary tables.

## Monitoring DB instances that use Aurora Optimized Reads

You can monitor your queries that use Optimized Reads-enabled tiered cache with the
EXPLAIN command as shown in the following example:

```sql

Postgres=> EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, BUFFERS) SELECT c FROM sbtest15 WHERE id=100000000

QUERY PLAN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Index Scan using sbtest15_pkey on sbtest15  (cost=0.57..8.59 rows=1 width=121) (actual time=0.287..0.288 rows=1 loops=1)
   Index Cond: (id = 100000000)
   Buffers: shared hit=3 read=2 aurora_orcache_hit=2
   I/O Timings: shared/local read=0.264
 Planning:
   Buffers: shared hit=33 read=6 aurora_orcache_hit=6
   I/O Timings: shared/local read=0.607
 Planning Time: 0.929 ms
 Execution Time: 0.303 ms
(9 rows)
Time: 2.028 ms

```

###### Note

`aurora_orcache_hit` and `aurora_storage_read` fields in the
`Buffers` section of the explain plan are shown only when Optimized
Reads is turned on and their values are greater than zero. The read field is the
total of the `aurora_orcache_hit` and `aurora_storage_read`
fields.

You can monitor DB instances that use Aurora Optimized Reads using the following CloudWatch
metrics:

- `AuroraOptimizedReadsCacheHitRatio`

- `FreeEphemeralStorage`

- `ReadIOPSEphemeralStorage`

- `ReadLatencyEphemeralStorage`

- `ReadThroughputEphemeralStorage`

- `WriteIOPSEphemeralStorage`

- `WriteLatencyEphemeralStorage`

- `WriteThroughputEphemeralStorage`

These metrics provide data about available instance store storage, IOPS, and
throughput. For more information about these metrics, see [Instance-level metrics for Amazon Aurora](aurora-auroramonitoring-metrics.md#Aurora.AuroraMySQL.Monitoring.Metrics.instances).

You can also use the `pg_proctab` extension to monitor NVMe storage.

```nohighlight

postgres=>select * from pg_diskusage();

major | minor |       devname       | reads_completed | reads_merged | sectors_read | readtime | writes_completed | writes_merged | sectors_written | writetime | current_io | iotime  | totaliotime
------+-------+---------------------+-----------------+--------------+--------------+----------+------------------+---------------+-----------------+-----------+------------+---------+-------------
      |       | rdstemp             |           23264 |            0 |       191450 |    11670 |          1750892 |             0 |        24540576 |    819350 |          0 | 3847580 |      831020
      |       | rdsephemeralstorage |           23271 |            0 |       193098 |     2620 |           114961 |             0 |        13845120 |    130770 |          0 |  215010 |      133410
(2 rows)

```

## Best practices for Aurora Optimized Reads

Use the following best practices for Aurora Optimized Reads:

- Monitor the storage space available on the instance store with the CloudWatch metric
`FreeEphemeralStorage`. If the instance store is reaching its
limit because of the workload on the DB instance, tune the concurrency and queries
which heavily use temporary objects or modify it to use a larger DB instance
class.

- Monitor the CloudWatch metric for the Optimized Reads cache hit rate. Operations
like VACUUM modify large numbers of blocks very quickly. This can cause a
temporary drop in the hit ratio. The `pg_prewarm` extension can be
used to load data into the buffer cache that allows Aurora to proactively write
some of those blocks to the Optimized Reads cache.

- You can enable cluster cache management (CCM) to warm up the buffer cache and
tiered cache on a tier-0 reader, which will be used as a failover target. When
CCM is enabled, the buffer cache is periodically scanned to write pages eligible
for eviction in tiered cache. For more information on CCM, see [Fast recovery after failover with cluster cache management for Aurora PostgreSQL](aurorapostgresql-cluster-cache-mgmt.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Optimizing query performance in Aurora PostgreSQL

Optimizing correlated subqueries in
Aurora PostgreSQL

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
