# Improving Aurora PostgreSQL query plans

Improve query plan management by evaluating plan performance and fixing plans. For
more information about improving your query plans, see the following topics.

###### Topics

- [Evaluating plan performance](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.EvaluatingPerformance)

- [Fixing plans using pg\_hint\_plan](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.pg_hint_plan)

## Evaluating plan performance

After the optimizer captures plans as unapproved, use the
`apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines` function to compare plans based
on their actual performance. Depending on the outcome of your performance
experiments, you can change a plan's status from unapproved to either approved
or rejected. You can instead decide to use the
`apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines` function to temporarily disable
a plan if it does not meet your requirements.

### Approving better plans

The following example demonstrates how to change the status of managed plans
to approved using the `apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines` function.

```sql

SELECT apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines (
   sql_hash,
   plan_hash,
   min_speedup_factor := 1.0,
   action := 'approve'
)
FROM apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans WHERE status = 'Unapproved';
```

```nohighlight

NOTICE:     rangequery (1,10000)
NOTICE:     Baseline   [ Planning time 0.761 ms, Execution time 13.261 ms]
NOTICE:     Baseline+1 [ Planning time 0.204 ms, Execution time 8.956 ms]
NOTICE:     Total time benefit: 4.862 ms, Execution time benefit: 4.305 ms
NOTICE:     Unapproved -> Approved
evolve_plan_baselines
-----------------------
0
(1 row)
```

The output shows a performance report for the `rangequery`
statement with parameter bindings of 1 and 10,000. The new unapproved plan
( `Baseline+1`) is better than the best previously approved plan
( `Baseline`). To confirm that the new plan is now
`Approved`, check the `apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view.

```sql

SELECT sql_hash, plan_hash, status, enabled, stmt_name
FROM apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans;
```

```nohighlight

sql_hash  | plan_hash |  status  | enabled | stmt_name
------------+-----------+----------+---------+------------
1984047223 | 512153379 | Approved | t       | rangequery
1984047223 | 512284451 | Approved | t       | rangequery
(2 rows)
```

The managed plan now includes two approved plans that are the statement's
plan baseline. You can also call the `apg_plan_mgmt.set_plan_status`
function to directly set a plan's status field to `'Approved'`,
`'Rejected'`, `'Unapproved'`, or
`'Preferred'`.

### Rejecting or disabling slower plans

To reject or disable plans, pass `'reject'` or `'disable'
                    ` as the action parameter to the
`apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines` function. This example
disables any captured `Unapproved` plan that is slower by at least 10
percent than the best `Approved` plan for the statement.

```sql

SELECT apg_plan_mgmt.evolve_plan_baselines(
sql_hash,  -- The managed statement ID
plan_hash, -- The plan ID
1.1,       -- number of times faster the plan must be
'disable'  -- The action to take. This sets the enabled field to false.
)
FROM apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans
WHERE status = 'Unapproved' AND   -- plan is Unapproved
origin = 'Automatic';       -- plan was auto-captured
```

You can also directly set a plan to rejected or disabled. To directly set a
plan's enabled field to `true` or `false`, call the
`apg_plan_mgmt.set_plan_enabled` function. To directly set a
plan's status field to `'Approved'`, `'Rejected'`,
`'Unapproved'`, or `'Preferred'`, call the
`apg_plan_mgmt.set_plan_status` function.

To delete plans that aren't valid and that you expect to remain invalid,
use the `apg_plan_mgmt.validate_plans` function. This function lets
you delete or disable invalid plans. For more information, see [Validating plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-deleting.md#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.ValidatingPlans).

## Fixing plans using pg\_hint\_plan

The query optimizer is well-designed to find an optimal plan for all statements,
and in most cases the optimizer finds a good plan. However, occasionally you might
know that a much better plan exists than that generated by the optimizer. Two
recommended ways to get the optimizer to generate a desired plan include using the
`pg_hint_plan` extension or setting Grand Unified Configuration (GUC)
variables in PostgreSQL:

- `pg_hint_plan` extension – Specify a "hint" to modify
how the planner works by using PostgreSQL's `pg_hint_plan`
extension. To install and learn more about how to use the
`pg_hint_plan` extension, see the [pg\_hint\_plan\
documentation](https://github.com/ossc-db/pg_hint_plan).

- GUC variables – Override one or more cost model parameters or other
optimizer parameters, such as the `from_collapse_limit` or
`GEQO_threshold`.

When you use one of these techniques to force the query optimizer to use a plan,
you can also use query plan management to capture and enforce use of the new
plan.

You can use the `pg_hint_plan` extension to change the join order, the
join methods, or the access paths for a SQL statement. You use a SQL comment with
special `pg_hint_plan` syntax to modify how the optimizer creates a plan.
For example, assume the problem SQL statement has a two-way join.

```sql

SELECT *
FROM t1, t2
WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
```

Then suppose that the optimizer chooses the join order (t1, t2), but you know that
the join order (t2, t1) is faster. The following hint forces the optimizer to use
the faster join order, (t2, t1). Include EXPLAIN so that the optimizer generates a
plan for the SQL statement but without running the statement. (Output not
shown.)

```sql

/*+ Leading ((t2 t1)) */ EXPLAIN SELECT *
FROM t1, t2
WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
```

The following steps show how to use `pg_hint_plan`.

###### To modify the optimizer's generated plan and capture the plan using pg\_hint\_plan

1. Turn on the manual capture mode.

```sql

SET apg_plan_mgmt.capture_plan_baselines = manual;
```

2. Specify a hint for the SQL statement of interest.

```sql

/*+ Leading ((t2 t1)) */ EXPLAIN SELECT *
FROM t1, t2
WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
```

After this runs, the optimizer captures the plan in the
    `apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view. The captured plan
    doesn't include the special `pg_hint_plan` comment syntax
    because query plan management normalizes the statement by removing leading
    comments.

3. View the managed plans by using the `apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans`
    view.

```sql

SELECT sql_hash, plan_hash, status, sql_text, plan_outline
FROM apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans;
```

4. Set the status of the plan to `Preferred`. Doing so makes sure
    that the optimizer chooses to run it, instead of selecting from the set of
    approved plans, when the minimum-cost plan isn't already
    `Approved` or `Preferred`.

```sql

SELECT apg_plan_mgmt.set_plan_status(sql-hash, plan-hash, 'preferred' );
```

5. Turn off manual plan capture and enforce the use of managed plans.

```sql

SET apg_plan_mgmt.capture_plan_baselines = false;
SET apg_plan_mgmt.use_plan_baselines = true;
```

Now, when the original SQL statement runs, the optimizer chooses either an
    `Approved` or `Preferred` plan. If the
    minimum-cost plan isn't `Approved` or
    `Preferred`, then the optimizer chooses the
    `Preferred` plan.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Examining Aurora PostgreSQL query plans in the dba\_plans view

Deleting plans

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
