# Best practices for Aurora PostgreSQL query plan management

Query plan management lets you control how and when query execution plans change. As a
DBA, your main goals when using QPM include preventing regressions when there are
changes to your database, and controlling whether to allow the optimizer to use a new
plan. In the following, you can find some recommended best practices for using query
plan management. Proactive and reactive plan management approaches differ in how and
when new plans get approved for use.

###### Contents

- [Proactive plan management to help prevent performance regression](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.Proactive)

  - [Ensuring plan stability after a major version upgrade](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.MajorVersionUpgrade)
- [Reactive plan management to detect and repair performance regressions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.BestPractice.Reactive)

## Proactive plan management to help prevent performance regression

To prevent plan performance regressions from occurring, you
_evolve_ plan baselines by running a procedure that compares
the performance of newly discovered plans to the performance of the existing
baseline of Approved plans, and then automatically approves the fastest set of plans
as the new baseline. In this way, the baseline of plans improves over time as faster
plans are discovered.

1. In a development environment, identify the SQL statements that have the
    greatest impact on performance or system throughput. Then capture the plans
    for these statements as described in [Manually capturing plans for specific SQL statements](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.Manual) and
    [Automatically capturing plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.Automatic).

2. Export the captured plans from the development environment and import them
    into the production environment. For more information, see [Exporting and importing managed plans for Aurora PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.ExportingImporting.html).

3. In production, run your application and enforce the use of approved
    managed plans. For more information, see [Using Aurora PostgreSQL managed plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.UsePlans.html). While the
    application runs, also add new plans as the optimizer discovers them. For
    more information, see [Automatically capturing plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.Automatic).

4. Analyze the unapproved plans and approve those that perform well. For more
    information, see [Evaluating plan performance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.EvaluatingPerformance).

5. While your application continues to run, the optimizer begins to use the
    new plans as appropriate.

### Ensuring plan stability after a major version upgrade

Each major version of PostgreSQL includes enhancements and changes to the
query optimizer that are designed to improve performance. However, query
execution plans generated by the optimizer in earlier versions might cause
performance regressions in newer upgraded versions. You can use query plan
management to resolve these performance issues and to ensure plan stability
after a major version upgrade.

The optimizer always uses a minimum-cost Approved plan, even if more than one
Approved plan for the same statement exists. After an upgrade the optimizer
might discover new plans but they will be saved as Unapproved plans. These plans
are performed only if approved using the reactive style of plan management with
the unapproved\_plan\_execution\_threshold parameter. You can maximize plan
stability using the proactive style of plan management with the
evolve\_plan\_baselines parameter. This compares the performance of the new plans
to the old plans and approves or rejects plans that are at least 10% faster than
the next best plan.

After upgrading, you can use the `evolve_plan_baselines` function
to compare plan performance before and after the upgrade using your query
parameter bindings. The following steps assume that you have been using approved
managed plans in your production environment, as detailed in [Using Aurora PostgreSQL managed plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.UsePlans.html).

1. Before upgrading, run your application with the query plan manager
    running. While the application runs, add new plans as the optimizer
    discovers them. For more information, see [Automatically capturing plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.Automatic).

2. Evaluate each plan's performance. For more information, see [Evaluating plan performance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.EvaluatingPerformance).

3. After upgrading, analyze your approved plans again using the
    `evolve_plan_baselines` function. Compare performance
    before and after using your query parameter bindings. If the new plan is
    fast, you can add it to your approved plans. If it's faster than
    another plan for the same parameter bindings, then you can mark the
    slower plan as Rejected.

For more information, see [Approving better plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.EvaluatingPerformance.Approving). For reference information about this function, see [apg\_plan\_mgmt.evolve\_plan\_baselines](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Functions.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Functions.evolve_plan_baselines).

For more information, see [Ensuring consistent performance after major version upgrades with\
Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL-Compatible Edition Query Plan Management](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/ensuring-consistent-performance-after-major-version-upgrades-with-amazon-aurora-postgresql-query-plan-management).

###### Note

When you perform a major version upgrade using logical replication or
AWS DMS, make sure that you replicate the `apg_plan_mgmt` schema to
ensure existing plans are copied to the upgraded instance. For more
information on logical replication, see [Using logical replication to perform a major version upgrade for Aurora PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.MajorVersionUpgrade.html).

## Reactive plan management to detect and repair performance regressions

By monitoring your application as it runs, you can detect plans that cause
performance regressions. When you detect regressions, you manually reject or fix the
bad plans by following these steps:

1. While your application runs, enforce the use of managed plans and
    automatically add newly discovered plans as unapproved. For more
    information, see [Using Aurora PostgreSQL managed plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.UsePlans.html) and [Automatically capturing plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.CapturePlans.Automatic).

2. Monitor your running application for performance regressions.

3. When you discover a plan regression, set the plan's status to
    `rejected`. The next time the optimizer runs the SQL
    statement, it automatically ignores the rejected plan and uses a different
    approved plan instead. For more information, see [Rejecting or disabling slower plans](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.EvaluatingPerformance.Rejecting).

In some cases, you might prefer to fix a bad plan rather than reject,
    disable, or delete it. Use the `pg_hint_plan` extension to
    experiment with improving a plan. With `pg_hint_plan`, you use
    special comments to tell the optimizer to override how it normally creates a
    plan. For more information, see [Fixing plans using pg\_hint\_plan](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.html#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.pg_hint_plan).

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Overview of
Aurora PostgreSQL query plan management

Query plan
management
