# Overview of Aurora MySQL database logs

You can monitor the following types of Aurora MySQL log files:

- Error log

- Slow query log

- General log

- Audit log

- Instance log

- IAM database authentication error log

The Aurora MySQL error log is generated by
default. You can generate the slow query and general logs by setting parameters in your DB parameter group.

###### Topics

- [Aurora MySQL error logs](#USER_LogAccess.MySQL.Errorlog)

- [Aurora MySQL slow query and general logs](#USER_LogAccess.MySQL.Generallog)

- [Aurora MySQL audit log](#ams-audit-log)

- [Aurora MySQL instance log](#ams-instance-log)

- [Log rotation and retention for Aurora MySQL](#USER_LogAccess.AMS.LogFileSize.retention)

- [Publishing Aurora MySQL logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs](#USER_LogAccess.MySQLDB.PublishAuroraMySQLtoCloudWatchLogs)

## Aurora MySQL error logs

Aurora MySQL writes errors in the
`mysql-error.log` file. Each log file has the hour it was generated (in UTC) appended to its name. The
log files also have a timestamp that helps you determine when the log entries were written.

Aurora MySQL writes to the error log only on
startup, shutdown, and when it encounters errors. A DB instance can go hours or days without new entries being written to the
error log. If you see no recent entries, it's because the server didn't encounter an error that would result in a log
entry.

By design, the error logs are filtered so that only unexpected events such as errors are shown. However, the error logs also
contain some additional database information, for example query progress, which isn't shown. Therefore, even without any
actual errors the size of the error logs might increase because of ongoing database activities. And while you might see a
certain size in bytes or kilobytes for the error logs in the AWS Management Console, they might have 0 bytes when you download them.

Aurora MySQL writes
`mysql-error.log` to disk every 5 minutes. It appends the contents of the log to
`mysql-error-running.log`.

Aurora MySQL rotates the `mysql-error-running.log` file every hour.

###### Note

The log retention period is different between Amazon RDS and Aurora.

## Aurora MySQL slow query and general logs

You can write the Aurora MySQL slow query log and the general log to a
file or a database table. To do so, set parameters in your DB parameter group. For
information about creating and modifying a DB parameter group, see [Parameter groups for Amazon Aurora](user-workingwithparamgroups.md).
You must set these parameters before you can view the slow query log or general log in
the Amazon RDS console or by using the Amazon RDS API, Amazon RDS CLI, or AWS SDKs.

You can control Aurora MySQL logging by using the
parameters in this list:

- `slow_query_log`: To create the slow query log, set to 1. The default is 0.

- `general_log`: To create the general log, set to 1. The default is 0.

- `long_query_time`: To prevent fast-running queries from being logged in the
slow query log, specify a value for the shortest query runtime to be logged, in
seconds. The default is 10 seconds; the minimum is 0. If log\_output = FILE, you
can specify a floating point value that goes to microsecond resolution. If
log\_output = TABLE, you must specify an integer value with second resolution.
Only queries whose runtime exceeds the `long_query_time` value are
logged. For example, setting `long_query_time` to 0.1 prevents any
query that runs for less than 100 milliseconds from being logged.

- `log_queries_not_using_indexes`: To log all queries that do not use an index to
the slow query log, set to 1. Queries that don't use an index are logged
even if their runtime is less than the value of the `long_query_time`
parameter. The default is 0.

- `log_output option`: You can specify one of the following
options for the `log_output` parameter.

- TABLE
– Write general queries to the
`mysql.general_log` table, and slow queries to the `mysql.slow_log` table.

- FILE – Write both general and slow query logs to the file system.

- NONE – Disable logging.

For Aurora MySQL versions 2 and 3, the default for `log_output` is `FILE`.

For slow query data to appear in Amazon CloudWatch Logs, the following conditions must be met:

- CloudWatch Logs must be configured to include slow query logs.

- `slow_query_log` must be enabled.

- `log_output` must be set to `FILE`.

- The query must take longer than the time configured for `long_query_time`.

For more information about the slow query and general logs, go to the following topics in the MySQL
documentation:

- [The slow query\
log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/slow-query-log.html)

- [The general query\
log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/query-log.html)

## Aurora MySQL audit log

Audit logging for Aurora MySQL is called Advanced Auditing. To turn on Advanced Auditing, you set certain DB cluster parameters.
For more information, see [Using Advanced Auditing with an Amazon Aurora MySQL DB cluster](auroramysql-auditing.md).

## Aurora MySQL instance log

Aurora creates a separate log file for DB instances that have auto-pause enabled. This instance.log file records any reasons why these
DB instances couldn't be paused when expected. For more information on instance log file behavior and Aurora auto-pause capability,
see [Monitoring Aurora Serverless v2 pause and resume activity](aurora-serverless-v2-administration.md#autopause-logging-instance-log).

## Log rotation and retention for Aurora MySQL

When logging is enabled, Amazon Aurora rotates or deletes log files at regular intervals. This measure is a precaution to reduce
the possibility of a large log file either blocking database use or affecting performance. Aurora MySQL handles rotation and
deletion as follows:

- The Aurora MySQL error log file sizes are constrained to no more than 15 percent of the local storage for a DB instance.
To maintain this threshold, logs are automatically rotated every hour. Aurora MySQL removes logs after 30 days or when 15%
of disk space is reached. If the combined log file size exceeds the threshold after removing old log files, then the
oldest log files are deleted until the log file size no longer exceeds the threshold.

- Aurora MySQL removes the audit, general, and slow query logs after either 24 hours or when 15% of storage has been
consumed.

- When `FILE` logging is enabled, general log and slow query log files are examined every hour and log files
more than 24 hours old are deleted. In some cases, the remaining combined log file size after the deletion might exceed
the threshold of 15 percent of a DB instance's local space. In these cases, the oldest log files are deleted until the
log file size no longer exceeds the threshold.

- When `TABLE` logging is enabled, log tables aren't rotated or deleted. Log tables are truncated when the size of all logs
combined is too large. You can subscribe to the `low storage` event category to be notified when log tables should be manually
rotated or deleted to free up space. For more information, see [Working with Amazon RDS event notification](user-events.md).

You can rotate the `mysql.general_log` table manually by calling the
`mysql.rds_rotate_general_log` procedure. You can rotate the `mysql.slow_log` table by calling
the `mysql.rds_rotate_slow_log` procedure.

When you rotate log tables manually, the current log table is copied to a backup log table and the entries in the
current log table are removed. If the backup log table already exists, then it is deleted before the current log table
is copied to the backup. You can query the backup log table if needed. The backup log table for the
`mysql.general_log` table is named `mysql.general_log_backup`. The backup log table for the
`mysql.slow_log` table is named `mysql.slow_log_backup`.

- The Aurora MySQL audit logs are rotated when the file size reaches 100 MB, and removed after 24 hours.

- Amazon RDS rotates IAM database authentication error log files larger than 10 MB.
Amazon RDS removes IAM database authentication error log files that are older than five days or larger than 100 MB.

To work with the logs from the Amazon RDS console, Amazon RDS API, Amazon RDS CLI, or AWS SDKs, set the `log_output` parameter
to FILE. Like the Aurora MySQL error log, these log files are rotated hourly. The log files that were generated during the
previous 24 hours are retained. Note that the retention period is different between Amazon RDS and Aurora.

## Publishing Aurora MySQL logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs

You can configure your Aurora MySQL DB cluster to publish log data to a log group in Amazon CloudWatch Logs. With CloudWatch Logs, you
can perform real-time analysis of the log data, and use CloudWatch to create alarms and view metrics. You can use CloudWatch Logs
to store your log records in highly durable storage. For more information, see [Publishing Amazon Aurora MySQL logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs](auroramysql-integrating-cloudwatch.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

MySQL database log files

Sending AuroraMySQL log output to tables

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
