# Using SSL/TLS certificates

An SSL/TLS certificate is a digital document that allows web browsers to identify and
establish encrypted network connections to web sites using the secure SSL/TLS protocol.
When you set up your custom domain, you can use the default managed certificate that
Amplify provisions for you or you can use your own custom certificate.

With a managed certificate, Amplify issues an SSL/TLS certificate for all domains
connected to your app so that all traffic is secured through HTTPS/2. The default
certificate generated by AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) is valid for 13 months and renews automatically as
long as your app is hosted with Amplify.

###### Warning

Amplify can't renew the certificate if the CNAME verification record has been
modified or deleted in the DNS settings with your domain provider. You must delete and
add the domain again in the Amplify console.

To use a custom certificate, you must first obtain a certificate from the third-party
certificate authority of your choice. Amplify Hosting supports two types of certificates:
RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) and ECDSA (Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm). Each
certificate type must conform to the following requirements.

**RSA certificates**

- Amplify Hosting supports 1024-bit, 2048-bit, 3072-bit, and 4096-bit RSA keys.

- AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) issues RSA certificates with up to 2048-bit keys.

- To use a 3072-bit or 4096-bit RSA certificate, obtain the certificate externally and import it into ACM. It will then be available for use with Amplify Hosting.

**ECDSA certificates**

- Amplify Hosting supports 256-bit keys.

- Use the prime256v1 elliptic curve to obtain an ECDSA certificate for Amplify Hosting.

After you obtain a certificate, import it into AWS Certificate Manager. ACM is a service that lets
you easily provision, manage, and deploy public and private SSL/TLS certificates for use
with AWS services and your internal connected resources. Make sure you request or import
the certificate in the US East (N. Virginia) (us-east-1) Region.

Ensure that your custom certificate covers all of the subdomains you plan to add. You
can use a wildcard at the beginning of your domain name to cover multiple subdomains. For
example, if your domain is `example.com`, you can include the wildcard domain
`*.example.com`. This will cover subdomains such as
`product.example.com` and `api.example.com`.

After your custom certificate is available in ACM, you will be able to select it
during the domain set up process. For instructions on importing certificates into
AWS Certificate Manager, see [Importing certificates into\
AWS Certificate Manager](../../../acm/latest/userguide/import-certificate.md) in the _AWS Certificate Manager User Guide_.

If you renew or reimport your custom certificate in ACM, Amplify refreshes the
certificate data associated with your custom domain. In the case of imported certificates,
ACM doesn't manage the renewals automatically. You are responsible for renewing your
custom certificates and importing them again.

You can change the certificate in use for a domain at any time. For example, you can
switch from the default managed certificate to a custom certificate or change from a custom
certificate to a managed certificate. In addition, you can change the custom certificate in
use to a different custom certificate. For instructions on updating certificates, see [Update the SSL/TLS certificate for a\
domain](to-update-certificate.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Understanding DNS terminology and concepts

Adding a custom domain managed by Amazon Route 53

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
