# StartPolicyGeneration

Starts the policy generation request.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

PUT /policy/generation HTTP/1.1
Content-type: application/json

{
   "clientToken": "string",
   "cloudTrailDetails": {
      "accessRole": "string",
      "endTime": "string",
      "startTime": "string",
      "trails": [
         {
            "allRegions": boolean,
            "cloudTrailArn": "string",
            "regions": [ "string" ]
         }
      ]
   },
   "policyGenerationDetails": {
      "principalArn": "string"
   }
}
```

## URI Request Parameters

The request does not use any URI parameters.

## Request Body

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[clientToken](#API_StartPolicyGeneration_RequestSyntax)**

A unique, case-sensitive identifier that you provide to ensure the idempotency of the
request. Idempotency ensures that an API request completes only once. With an idempotent
request, if the original request completes successfully, the subsequent retries with the
same client token return the result from the original successful request and they have no
additional effect.

If you do not specify a client token, one is automatically generated by the AWS
SDK.

Type: String

Required: No

**[cloudTrailDetails](#API_StartPolicyGeneration_RequestSyntax)**

A `CloudTrailDetails` object that contains details about a `Trail`
that you want to analyze to generate policies.

Type: [CloudTrailDetails](api-cloudtraildetails.md) object

Required: No

**[policyGenerationDetails](#API_StartPolicyGeneration_RequestSyntax)**

Contains the ARN of the IAM entity (user or role) for which you are generating a
policy.

Type: [PolicyGenerationDetails](api-policygenerationdetails.md) object

Required: Yes

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-type: application/json

{
   "jobId": "string"
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[jobId](#API_StartPolicyGeneration_ResponseSyntax)**

The `JobId` that is returned by the `StartPolicyGeneration`
operation. The `JobId` can be used with `GetGeneratedPolicy` to
retrieve the generated policies or used with `CancelPolicyGeneration` to cancel
the policy generation request.

Type: String

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**AccessDeniedException**

You do not have sufficient access to perform this action.

HTTP Status Code: 403

**ConflictException**

A conflict exception error.

**resourceId**

The ID of the resource.

**resourceType**

The resource type.

HTTP Status Code: 409

**InternalServerException**

Internal server error.

**retryAfterSeconds**

The seconds to wait to retry.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**ServiceQuotaExceededException**

Service quote met error.

**resourceId**

The resource ID.

**resourceType**

The resource type.

HTTP Status Code: 402

**ThrottlingException**

Throttling limit exceeded error.

**retryAfterSeconds**

The seconds to wait to retry.

HTTP Status Code: 429

**ValidationException**

Validation exception error.

**fieldList**

A list of fields that didn't validate.

**reason**

The reason for the exception.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/startpolicygeneration.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ListTagsForResource

StartResourceScan
