# Build the sample Amazon Linux 2023 image description

AWS provides a sample Amazon Linux 2023 image description that you can use as a starting point for creating your own custom Attestable AMIs
for your workloads. The sample image description includes Amazon Linux 2023 as the base operating system, `dm-verity`
and `erofs` configurations for filesystem immutability, and it removes all interactive access (such
as SSH, EC2 instance connect, and serial console) to create an isolated compute environment. For more information
about the sample image description, see the [Github repo](https://github.com/amazonlinux/kiwi-image-descriptions-examples).

The sample image description automatically installs the NitroTPM tools ( `nitro-tpm-pcr-compute` and
`nitro-tpm-attest`) in the built image in the `/usr/bin/` directory. This ensures that the tools
are preinstalled on instances launched from the AMI.

The sample image description includes a script, `edit_boot_install.sh`, which includes the commands needed to
generate the reference measurements. The script mounts the raw disk image file ( `.raw`) created by KIWI NG to a loopback
device, locates the UKI, which has the `.efi` file extension, and then runs the `nitro-tpm-pcr-compute`
utility to generate the reference measurements for the AMI. The script is automatically executed by KIWI NG during build time.

This tutorial shows you how to build the sample image description to create an Attestable AMI.

For more information about creating your own image descriptions, see the following KIWI NG documentation:

- [Quick Start](https://osinside.github.io/kiwi/quickstart.html)

- [Image Description](https://osinside.github.io/kiwi/image_description.html)

- [Sample Amazon Linux 2023 image description](https://github.com/amazonlinux/kiwi-image-descriptions-examples)

Prerequisites

Your IAM identity must have the following permissions to complete this tutorial:

- `ebs:CompleteSnapshot`, `ebs:StartSnapshot`, and `ebs:PutSnapshotBlock` on `arn:aws:ec2:*::snapshot/*`

- `ec2:RegisterImage` on all resources

###### To build the sample Amazon Linux 2023 image description using KIWI NG

1. Launch an Amazon EC2 instance using the latest AL2023 AMI. To ensure that your instance has enough storage space
    to build the AMI, ensure that you provision at least 12 GB of storage.

2. Install the required dependencies. The following command installs the following utilities:

- `kiwi-cli`

- `veritysetup`

- `erofs-utils`

- `aws-nitro-tpm-tools`

```nohighlight

sudo dnf install -y kiwi-cli python3-kiwi kiwi-systemdeps-core python3-poetry-core qemu-img veritysetup erofs-utils git cargo aws-nitro-tpm-tools
```

3. Install the `coldsnap` utility. This utility enables you to create Amazon EBS snapshots from raw
    image data. You'll use this utility to create an EBS snapshot from the raw disk image file created by KIWI NG.

```nohighlight

git clone https://github.com/awslabs/coldsnap.git
cd coldsnap
cargo install --locked coldsnap
cd ..
```

4. Get the sample image description files.

```nohighlight

sudo dnf install kiwi-image-descriptions-examples
```

The sample image description files are downloaded to the following directory: `/usr/share/kiwi-image-descriptions-examples/al2023/attestable-image-example`

5. Build the sample image description using the KIWI NG `system build` command. The
    following command creates a raw disk image file in the `./image` directory.

```nohighlight

sudo kiwi-ng \
   --color-output \
   --loglevel 0 \
system build \
   --description /usr/share/kiwi-image-descriptions-examples/al2023/attestable-image-example \
   --target-dir ./image
```

For more information, see the [kiwi-ng system build](https://osinside.github.io/kiwi/commands/system_build.html) documentation.

6. Get the reference measurements for the AMI. The measurements are generated by the `nitro-tpm-pcr-compute`
    utility during image build time in the previous step. You can locate the reference measurements in the following
    file: `./image/pcr_measurements.json`.

The measurements are provided in the following JSON format:

```nohighlight

{
     "Measurements": {
       "HashAlgorithm": "SHA384 { ... }",
       "PCR4": "PCR4_measurement",
       "PCR7": "PCR7_measurement",
       "PCR12": "PCR12_measurement"
     }
}
```

7. Use the `coldsnap` utility to upload the raw disk image created by KIWI NG to an EBS
    snapshot. The command returns the snapshot ID. Make a note of the ID, you'll need it for the next step.

```nohighlight

SNAPSHOT=$(.cargo/bin/coldsnap upload ./image/al2023*.raw)
echo "Created snapshot: $SNAPSHOT"
```

For more information about the `coldsnap` utility, see the [coldsnap GitHub repo](https://github.com/awslabs/coldsnap).

8. Register a TPM 2.0-enabled AMI with UEFI boot mode using the snapshot from the previous step.
    For `--architecture`, specify `x86_64` for Intel, or `arm64`
    for Graviton.

```nohighlight

aws ec2 register-image \
   --name "attestable_isolated_al2023_ami" \
   --virtualization-type hvm \
   --boot-mode uefi \
   --architecture x86_64|arm64 \
   --root-device-name /dev/xvda \
   --block-device-mappings DeviceName=/dev/xvda,Ebs={SnapshotId=${SNAPSHOT}} \
   --tpm-support v2.0 \
   --ena-support
```

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Attestable AMIs

Sample Amazon Linux 2023 image description
