# Amazon EventBridge

The following are the requirements and connection instructions for using Amazon EventBridge with
Amazon AppFlow.

###### Note

You can use Amazon EventBridge as a destination only.

###### Topics

- [Requirements](#EventBridge-requirements)

- [Connection instructions](#EventBridge-setup)

- [Notes](#EventBridge-notes)

- [Related resources](#EventBridge-resources)

## Requirements

Amazon AppFlow integrates with Amazon EventBridge to receive events from Salesforce. When you configure a
flow that responds to Salesforce events, you can choose Amazon EventBridge as a destination. This enables
Salesforce events received by Amazon AppFlow to be routed directly to a [partner event bus](../../../eventbridge/latest/userguide/create-partner-event-bus.md).

- To configure Amazon EventBridge integration in Amazon AppFlow, you must first create a flow with
Amazon EventBridge as the destination and then specify the partner event source.

- Before you can activate the flow, you must go to Amazon EventBridge to associate the partner event
source with the event bus. After you complete this association and activate the flow,
Salesforce events start flowing to the Amazon EventBridge event bus.

## Connection instructions

###### To create a flow with Amazon EventBridge as the destination

01. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon AppFlow console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/appflow/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/appflow).

02. Choose **Create flow** and enter a name for your flow.

03. For **Source details**, choose **Salesforce** as the
     source and select **Salesforce Events** with the specific event name.

04. For **Destination details**, choose Amazon EventBridge as the destination and one
     of the following partner event sources:

- **Existing partner event source** \- Amazon AppFlow displays a list of
existing partner event sources that are available to you.

- **New partner event source** \- Amazon AppFlow creates a new partner event
source on your behalf. If you choose this option, the partner event source name generated by
Amazon AppFlow appears in a dialog box. (Optional) You can modify this name if needed.

###### Note

The actual call to Amazon EventBridge API operations for creating this partner event source happens
only when you choose **Create flow** in step 11 of this procedure.

05. For **Large event handling**, specify the S3 bucket where you want
     Amazon AppFlow to send large event information.

06. Ensure that **Run flow on event** is selected in the **Flow**
    **trigger** section. This setting ensures that the flow is executed when a new
     Salesforce event occurs.

07. For field mapping, choose **Map all fields directly**. Alternatively, you
     can choose the fields that you're interested in using from the **Source field**
    **name** list.

08. Choose **Next**.

09. (Optional) Configure filters for data fields in Amazon AppFlow.

10. Choose **Next**.

11. Review the settings and then choose **Create flow**.

###### To associate the partner event source with the event bus in Amazon EventBridge

1. Open the **Partner event sources** view in the Amazon EventBridge console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/events/home?#/partners/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/events/home?).

2. Choose the partner event source that you created.

3. Choose **Associate with event bus**.

4. Validate the name of the partner event bus.

5. Choose **Associate**.

6. Return to Amazon AppFlow and choose **Activate flow** to activate the flow.

## Notes

- Events are limited to 256 KB. For events larger than 256 KB, Amazon AppFlow doesn't send the
full event to Amazon EventBridge. Instead, the event payload contains a pointer to an S3 bucket, where
you can get the full event.

- Events should be enabled in Salesforce and also in Amazon AppFlow for the destination to
receive them. The destination service receives all such events configured for your account. If
you need to filter the kinds of events that you want to process, or send different events to
different targets, you can use [content-based filtering with event patterns](../../../eventbridge/latest/userguide/content-filtering-with-event-patterns.md).

## Related resources

- [Receiving events from a SaaS partner](../../../eventbridge/latest/userguide/create-partner-event-bus.md) in the _Amazon EventBridge_
documentation

- [Amazon AppFlow now supports Amazon EventBridge as a destination](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2020/08/amazon-appflow-now-supports-amazon-eventbridge-as-a-destination) in the AWS _What's_
_new_ blog

- [Building Salesforce integrations with Amazon EventBridge and Amazon AppFlow](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/building-salesforce-integrations-with-amazon-eventbridge) in the AWS
_Compute_ blog

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Amazon Connect

Amazon Lookout for Metrics

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
