# Understand cache policies

You can use a cache policy to improve your cache hit ratio by controlling the values
(URL query strings, HTTP headers, and cookies) that are included in the cache key. CloudFront
provides some predefined cache policies, known as _managed_
_policies_, for common use cases. You can use these managed policies, or
you can create your own cache policy that's specific to your needs. For more information
about the managed policies, see [Use managed cache policies](using-managed-cache-policies.md).

A cache policy contains the following settings, which are categorized into _policy information_, _time to live_
_(TTL) settings_, and _cache key_
_settings_.

## Policy information

**Name**

A name to identify the cache policy. In the console, you use the name
to attach the cache policy to a cache behavior.

**Description**

A comment to describe the cache policy. This is optional, but it can
help you identify the purpose of the cache policy.

## Time to live (TTL) settings

The time to live (TTL) settings work together with the `Cache-Control`
and `Expires` HTTP headers (if they're in the origin response) to
determine how long objects in the CloudFront cache remain valid.

**Minimum TTL**

The minimum amount of time, in seconds, that you want objects to stay
in the CloudFront cache before CloudFront checks with the origin to see if the
object has been updated. For more information, see [Manage how long content stays in the cache (expiration)](expiration.md).

###### Warning

If your minimum TTL is greater than 0, CloudFront will cache content for at least the duration specified in the cache policy's minimum TTL, even if the `Cache-Control: no-cache`, `no-store`, or `private` directives are present in the origin headers.

**Maximum TTL**

The maximum amount of time, in seconds, that objects stay in the CloudFront
cache before CloudFront checks with the origin to see if the object has been
updated. CloudFront uses this setting only when the origin sends
`Cache-Control` or `Expires` headers with the
object. For more information, see [Manage how long content stays in the cache (expiration)](expiration.md).

**Default TTL**

The default amount of time, in seconds, that you want objects to stay
in the CloudFront cache before CloudFront checks with the origin to see if the
object has been updated. CloudFront uses this setting's value as the object's
TTL only when the origin does _not_
send `Cache-Control` or `Expires` headers with the
object. For more information, see [Manage how long content stays in the cache (expiration)](expiration.md).

###### Note

If the **Minimum TTL**, **Maximum TTL**, and
**Default TTL** settings are all set to 0, this disables
CloudFront caching.

## Cache key settings

Cache key settings specify the values in viewer requests that CloudFront includes in the
cache key. The values can include URL query strings, HTTP headers, and cookies. The
values that you include in the cache key are automatically included in requests that
CloudFront sends to the origin, known as _origin_
_requests_. For information about controlling origin requests without
affecting the cache key, see [Control origin requests with a policy](controlling-origin-requests.md).

Cache key settings include:

- [Headers](#cache-policy-headers)

- [Cookies](#cache-policy-cookies)

- [Query strings](#cache-policy-query-strings)

- [Compression support](#cache-policy-compressed-objects)

**Headers**

The HTTP headers in viewer requests that CloudFront includes in the cache
key and in origin requests. For headers, you can choose one of the
following settings:

- **None** – The HTTP headers in viewer
requests are _not_ included in
the cache key and are _not_
automatically included in origin requests.

- **Include the following headers** –
You specify which of the HTTP headers in viewer requests are
included in the cache key and automatically included in origin
requests.

When you use the **Include the following headers**
setting, you specify HTTP headers by their name, not their value. For
example, consider the following HTTP header:

```nohighlight

Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
```

In this case, you specify the header as `Accept-Language`,
not as `Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5`. However, CloudFront
includes the full header, including its value, in the cache key and in
origin requests.

You can also include certain headers generated by CloudFront in the cache
key. For more information, see [Add CloudFront request headers](adding-cloudfront-headers.md).

**Cookies**

The cookies in viewer requests that CloudFront includes in the cache key and
in origin requests. For cookies, you can choose one of the following
settings:

- **None** – The cookies in viewer
requests are _not_ included in
the cache key and are _not_
automatically included in origin requests.

- **All** – All cookies in viewer
requests are included in the cache key and are automatically
included in origin requests.

- **Include specified cookies** – You
specify which of the cookies in viewer requests are included in
the cache key and automatically included in origin
requests.

- **Include all cookies except** – You
specify which of the cookies in viewer requests are _not_ included in the cache key and
are _not_ automatically
included in origin requests. All other cookies, except for the
ones you specify, _are_
included in the cache key and automatically included in origin
requests.

When you use the **Include specified cookies** or
**Include all cookies except** setting, you specify
cookies by their name, not their value. For example, consider the
following `Cookie` header:

```nohighlight

Cookie: session_ID=abcd1234
```

In this case, you specify the cookie as `session_ID`, not
as `session_ID=abcd1234`. However, CloudFront includes the full
cookie, including its value, in the cache key and in origin
requests.

**Query strings**

The URL query strings in viewer requests that CloudFront includes in the
cache key and in origin requests. For query strings, you can choose one
of the following settings:

- **None** – The query strings in viewer
requests are _not_ included in
the cache key and are _not_
automatically included in origin requests.

- **All** – All query strings in viewer
requests are included in the cache key and are also
automatically included in origin requests.

- **Include specified query strings** –
You specify which of the query strings in viewer requests are
included in the cache key and automatically included in origin
requests.

- **Include all query strings except** –
You specify which of the query strings in viewer requests are
_not_ included in the cache
key and are _not_ automatically
included in origin requests. All other query strings, except for
the ones you specify, _are_
included in the cache key and automatically included in origin
requests.

When you use the **Include specified query strings**
or **Include all query strings except** setting, you
specify query strings by their name, not their value. For example,
consider the following URL path:

```nohighlight

/content/stories/example-story.html?split-pages=false
```

In this case, you specify the query string as
`split-pages`, not as `split-pages=false`.
However, CloudFront includes the full query string, including its value, in
the cache key and in origin requests.

###### Note

For the cache key settings, CloudFront treats the asterisk character
( `*`) for the headers, query strings, and cookies as a literal string, not as a wildcard.

**Compression support**

These settings enable CloudFront to request and cache objects that are
compressed in the Gzip or Brotli compression formats, when the viewer
supports it. These settings also allow [CloudFront compression](servingcompressedfiles.md) to work.
Viewers indicate their support for these compression formats with the
`Accept-Encoding` HTTP header.

###### Note

The Chrome and Firefox web browsers support Brotli compression
only when the request is sent using HTTPS. These browsers do not
support Brotli with HTTP requests.

Enable these settings when any of the following are true:

- Your origin returns Gzip compressed objects when viewers
support them (requests contain the `Accept-Encoding`
HTTP header with `gzip` as a value). In this case,
use the **Gzip enabled** setting (set
`EnableAcceptEncodingGzip` to `true`
in the CloudFront API, AWS SDKs, AWS CLI, or CloudFormation).

- Your origin returns Brotli compressed objects when viewers
support them (requests contain the `Accept-Encoding`
HTTP header with `br` as a value). In this case, use
the **Brotli enabled** setting (set
`EnableAcceptEncodingBrotli` to `true`
in the CloudFront API, AWS SDKs, AWS CLI, or CloudFormation).

- The cache behavior that this cache policy is attached to is
configured with [CloudFront\
compression](servingcompressedfiles.md). In this case, you can enable caching for
either Gzip or Brotli, or both. When CloudFront compression is
enabled, enabling caching for both formats can help to reduce
your costs for data transfer out to the internet.

###### Note

If you enable caching for one or both of these compression
formats, do not include the `Accept-Encoding` header in
an [origin request\
policy](controlling-origin-requests.md) that's associated with the same cache behavior.
CloudFront always includes this header in origin requests when caching is
enabled for either of these formats, so including
`Accept-Encoding` in an origin request policy has no
effect.

If your origin server does not return Gzip or Brotli compressed
objects, or the cache behavior is not configured with CloudFront compression,
don't enable caching for compressed objects. If you do, it might cause a
decrease in your [cache hit\
ratio](cache-hit-ratio.md).

The following explains how these settings affect a CloudFront distribution.
All of the following scenarios assume that the viewer request includes
the `Accept-Encoding` header. When the viewer request does
not include the `Accept-Encoding` header, CloudFront doesn't
include this header in the cache key and doesn't include it in the
corresponding origin request.

**When caching compressed objects is enabled for both**
**compression formats**

If the viewer supports both Gzip and Brotli—that
is, if the `gzip` and `br` values are
both in the `Accept-Encoding` header in the
viewer request—CloudFront does the following:

- Normalizes the header to `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    br,gzip` and includes the normalized header
in the cache key. The cache key doesn't include
other values that were in the
`Accept-Encoding` header sent by the
viewer.

- If the edge location has a Brotli or Gzip
compressed object in the cache that matches the
request and is not expired, the edge location
returns the object to the viewer.

- If the edge location doesn't have a Brotli or Gzip
compressed object in the cache that matches the
request and is not expired, CloudFront includes the
normalized header ( `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    br,gzip`) in the corresponding origin
request. The origin request doesn't include other
values that were in the `Accept-Encoding`
header sent by the viewer.

If the viewer supports one compression format but not the
other—for example, if `gzip` is a value in
the `Accept-Encoding` header in the viewer
request but `br` is not—CloudFront does the
following:

- Normalizes the header to `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    gzip` and includes the normalized header in
the cache key. The cache key doesn't include other
values that were in the `Accept-Encoding`
header sent by the viewer.

- If the edge location has a Gzip compressed object
in the cache that matches the request and is not
expired, the edge location returns the object to the
viewer.

- If the edge location doesn't have a Gzip
compressed object in the cache that matches the
request and is not expired, CloudFront includes the
normalized header ( `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    gzip`) in the corresponding origin request.
The origin request doesn't include other values that
were in the `Accept-Encoding` header sent
by the viewer.

To understand what CloudFront does if the viewer supports Brotli
but not Gzip, replace the two compression formats with each
other in the preceding example.

If the viewer does not support Brotli or Gzip—that
is, the `Accept-Encoding` header in the viewer
request does not contain `br` or
`gzip` as values—CloudFront:

- Doesn't include the `Accept-Encoding`
header in the cache key.

- Includes `Accept-Encoding: identity` in
the corresponding origin request. The origin request
doesn't include other values that were in the
`Accept-Encoding` header sent by the
viewer.

**When caching compressed objects is enabled for one compression**
**format, but not the other**

If the viewer supports the format for which caching is
enabled—for example, if caching compressed objects is
enabled for Gzip and the viewer supports Gzip
( `gzip` is one of the values in the
`Accept-Encoding` header in the viewer
request)—CloudFront does the following:

- Normalizes the header to `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    gzip` and includes the normalized header in
the cache key.

- If the edge location has a Gzip compressed object
in the cache that matches the request and is not
expired, the edge location returns the object to the
viewer.

- If the edge location doesn't have a Gzip
compressed object in the cache that matches the
request and is not expired, CloudFront includes the
normalized header ( `Accept-Encoding:
                                                    gzip`) in the corresponding origin request.
The origin request doesn't include other values that
were in the `Accept-Encoding` header sent
by the viewer.

This behavior is the same when the viewer supports both
Gzip and Brotli (the `Accept-Encoding` header in
the viewer request includes both `gzip` _and_ `br` as values), because in this scenario,
caching compressed objects for Brotli is not enabled.

To understand what CloudFront does if caching compressed objects
is enabled for Brotli but not Gzip, replace the two
compression formats with each other in the preceding
example.

If the viewer does not support the compression format for
which caching is enabled (the `Accept-Encoding`
header in the viewer request doesn't contain the value for
that format), CloudFront:

- Doesn't include the `Accept-Encoding`
header in the cache key.

- Includes `Accept-Encoding: identity` in
the corresponding origin request. The origin request
doesn't include other values that were in the
`Accept-Encoding` header sent by the
viewer.

**When caching compressed objects is disabled for both**
**compression formats**

When caching compressed objects is disabled for both
compression formats, CloudFront treats the
`Accept-Encoding` header the same as any
other HTTP header in the viewer request. By default, it's
not included in the cache key and it's not included in
origin requests. You can include it in the headers list in a
cache policy or an origin request policy the same as any
other HTTP header.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Control the cache key with a policy

Create cache policies

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
