# supply\_plan

**Primary key (PK)**

The table below lists the colum names that are uniquely identified in the data entity.

NameColumnsupply\_plansupply\_plan\_id

The table below lists the column names supported by the data entity:

ColumnData typeRequiredDescription

supply\_plan\_id

string

Yes

Supply plan ID.

company\_id1

string

No

Company ID.

plan\_uuid

string

No

Unique plan identifier generated by the application. To be only used if this ID is separate from supply\_plan\_id.

snapshot\_date

timestamp

No

Date and time till when data is collected.

creation\_date

timestamp

No

Date and time till when plan was created.

status

string

No

Supply plan status.

tpartner\_id1

string

No

Trading partner ID. For example, contract Manufacturer, or supplier in n-tier network.

product\_id1

string

No

Product ID.

product\_group\_id1

string

No

Product group ID.

to\_site\_id1

string

No

Site where the order will arrive.

from\_site\_id1

string

No

Site where order line originates.

plan\_need\_by\_date

timestamp

No

Future date and time by when supply is needed at _to\_site\_id_.

plan\_quantity

double

No

Planned quantity

commit\_date

timestamp

No

Date committed by tpartner against the plan\_date.

commit\_quantity

double

No

Quantity committed by tpartner.

supply\_upside

double

No

Upside capacity published by the supplier.

plan\_type

string

No

Type of plan. For example, Forecast Commit, Supplier Plan.

plan\_window\_start

timestamp

No

If plan corresponds to a planning bucket or window in application, this field stores the start of the planning window.

plan\_window\_end

timestamp

No

If plan corresponds to a planning bucket or window in application, this field stores the end of the planning window.

source

string

No

Source of data.

production\_process\_id1

string

No

ID associated with a specific production process.

plan\_cycle\_sequence

double

No

Sequence number of the plan cycle for a particular order.

quantity\_uom

string

No

UOM associated with the quantity.

plan\_id

string

No

Recurring plan that covers multiple supply plan records.

plan\_sequence\_id

string

No

Unique identifier or sequence number assigned to each individual supply plan or supply plan version.

plan\_cost

double

No

Estimated or projected cost associated with a particular supply plan. This cost includes various factors such as raw material costs, labor costs, transportation costs, storage costs, and any other relevant expenses involved in executing the supply plan. It provides a financial measure to assess the viability and feasibility of the planned supply activities.

required\_date

timestamp

No

Date when you are required to execute a plan under a specific supply\_plan generated by supply planning.

production\_process\_id

string

No

ID associated with a specific production process.

source\_event\_id

string

No

ID of the event created in the source system.

source\_update\_dttm

timestamp

No

Date time stamp of the update made in the source
system.

total\_supply\_quantity

double

No

The total supply expected to be delivered on the plan\_need\_by\_date.

projected\_inventory\_level

double

No

Inventory quantity projected based on the plan\_need\_by\_date.

target\_inventory\_level

double

No

The target inventory level on the required\_date.

1Foreign key

**Foreign key (FK)**

The table below lists the columns with the associated foreign key.

ColumnCategoryFK/Data entityFK/Columncompany\_idOrganizationcompanyidproduct\_idProductproductidstatusOrganizationtrading\_partneridproduct\_group\_idProductproduct\_hierarchyidto\_site\_id, from\_site\_idNetworksiteidproduction\_process\_idOperationproduction\_processproduction\_process\_id

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Plan

Forecast

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
