# Amazon Athena Google BigQuery connector

The Amazon Athena connector for Google [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery) enables Amazon Athena to run SQL queries on your Google BigQuery
data.

This connector can be registered with Glue Data Catalog as a federated catalog.
It supports data access controls defined in Lake Formation at the catalog, database, table, column, row, and tag levels. This connector uses Glue Connections to centralize configuration properties in Glue.

## Prerequisites

- Deploy the connector to your AWS account using the Athena console or the AWS Serverless Application Repository. For more information, see [Create a data source connection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-to-a-data-source.html) or [Use the AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy a data source connector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-data-source-serverless-app-repo.html).

## Limitations

- Lambda functions have a maximum timeout value of 15 minutes. Each split
executes a query on BigQuery and must finish with enough time to store the
results for Athena to read. If the Lambda function times out, the query
fails.

- Google BigQuery is case sensitive. The connector attempts to correct the case
of dataset names, table names, and project IDs. This is necessary because Athena
lower cases all metadata. These corrections make many extra calls to Google
BigQuery.

- Binary data types are not supported.

- Because of Google BigQuery concurrency and quota limits, the connector may
encounter Google quota limit issues. To avoid these issues, push as many
constraints to Google BigQuery as feasible. For information about BigQuery
quotas, see [Quotas and\
limits](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/quotas) in the Google BigQuery documentation.

## Parameters

Use the parameters in this section to configure the Google BigQuery connector.

We recommend that you configure a Google BigQuery connector by using a Glue
connections object. To do this, set the `glue_connection`
environment variable of the Google BigQuery connector Lambda to the name of the Glue
connection to use.

**Glue connections properties**

Use the following command to get the schema for a Glue connection object. This schema contains all the parameters that you can use to control your connection.

```

aws glue describe-connection-type --connection-type BIGQUERY
```

**Lambda environment properties**

glue\_connection – Specifies the name of the Glue connection associated with the federated connector.

###### Note

- All connectors that use Glue connections must use AWS Secrets Manager to store credentials.

- The Google BigQuery connector created using Glue connections does not support the use of a multiplexing handler.

- The Google BigQuery connector created using Glue connections only supports `ConnectionSchemaVersion` 2.

###### Note

Athena data source connectors created on December 3, 2024 and later use AWS Glue connections.

The parameter names and definitions listed below are for Athena data source connectors created without an associated Glue connection. Use the following parameters only when you [manually deploy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-data-source-serverless-app-repo.html) an earlier version of an Athena data source connector or when the
`glue_connection` environment property is not
specified.

**Lambda environment properties**

- spill\_bucket – Specifies the Amazon S3 bucket
for data that exceeds Lambda function limits.

- spill\_prefix – (Optional) Defaults to a
subfolder in the specified `spill_bucket` called
`athena-federation-spill`. We recommend that you
configure an Amazon S3 [storage\
lifecycle](../../../s3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.md) on this location to delete spills older than a
predetermined number of days or hours.

- spill\_put\_request\_headers – (Optional) A
JSON encoded map of request headers and values for the Amazon S3
`putObject` request that is used for spilling (for example,
`{"x-amz-server-side-encryption" : "AES256"}`). For other
possible headers, see [PutObject](../../../s3/latest/api/api-putobject.md) in the
_Amazon Simple Storage Service API Reference_.

- kms\_key\_id – (Optional) By default, any
data that is spilled to Amazon S3 is encrypted using the AES-GCM authenticated
encryption mode and a randomly generated key. To have your Lambda function use
stronger encryption keys generated by KMS like
`a7e63k4b-8loc-40db-a2a1-4d0en2cd8331`, you can specify a KMS key
ID.

- disable\_spill\_encryption – (Optional)
When set to `True`, disables spill encryption. Defaults to
`False` so that data that is spilled to S3 is encrypted using
AES-GCM – either using a randomly generated key or KMS to generate keys.
Disabling spill encryption can improve performance, especially if your spill
location uses [server-side\
encryption](../../../s3/latest/userguide/serv-side-encryption.md).

- gcp\_project\_id – The project ID (not
project name) that contains the datasets that the connector should read from
(for example, `semiotic-primer-1234567`).

- secret\_manager\_gcp\_creds\_name – The name
of the secret within AWS Secrets Manager that contains your BigQuery credentials in JSON
format (for example, `GoogleCloudPlatformCredentials`).

- big\_query\_endpoint – (Optional) The URL
of a BigQuery private endpoint. Use this parameter when you want to access
BigQuery over a private endpoint.

## Splits and views

Because the BigQuery connector uses the BigQuery Storage Read API to
query tables, and the BigQuery Storage API does not support views, the connector
uses the BigQuery client with a single split for views.

## Performance

To query tables, the BigQuery connector uses the BigQuery Storage Read
API, which uses an RPC-based protocol that provides fast access to BigQuery
managed storage. For more information about the BigQuery Storage Read API, see
[Use the\
BigQuery Storage Read API to read table data](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/storage) in the Google Cloud
documentation.

Selecting a subset of columns significantly speeds up query runtime and reduces data scanned. The connector is subject to query failures as concurrency
increases, and generally is a slow connector.

The Athena Google BigQuery connector performs predicate pushdown to decrease the data scanned by the query. `LIMIT` clauses, `ORDER BY` clauses, simple predicates, and complex expressions are pushed down to the connector to reduce the amount of data scanned and decrease query execution run time.

### LIMIT clauses

A `LIMIT N` statement reduces the data scanned by the query. With
`LIMIT N` pushdown, the connector returns only `N` rows to
Athena.

### Top N queries

A top `N` query specifies an ordering of the result set and a limit on
the number of rows returned. You can use this type of query to determine the top
`N` max values or top `N` min values for your datasets.
With top `N` pushdown, the connector returns only `N` ordered
rows to Athena.

### Predicates

A predicate is an expression in the `WHERE` clause of a SQL query that
evaluates to a Boolean value and filters rows based on multiple conditions. The
Athena Google BigQuery connector can combine these expressions and push them directly to
Google BigQuery for enhanced functionality and to reduce the amount of data scanned.

The following Athena Google BigQuery connector operators support predicate
pushdown:

- Boolean: AND, OR, NOT

- Equality: EQUAL, NOT\_EQUAL, LESS\_THAN,
LESS\_THAN\_OR\_EQUAL, GREATER\_THAN, GREATER\_THAN\_OR\_EQUAL, IS\_DISTINCT\_FROM,
NULL\_IF, IS\_NULL

- Arithmetic: ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLY,
DIVIDE, MODULUS, NEGATE

- Other: LIKE\_PATTERN, IN

### Combined pushdown example

For enhanced querying capabilities, combine the pushdown types, as in the following example:

```sql

SELECT *
FROM my_table
WHERE col_a > 10
    AND ((col_a + col_b) > (col_c % col_d))
    AND (col_e IN ('val1', 'val2', 'val3') OR col_f LIKE '%pattern%')
ORDER BY col_a DESC
LIMIT 10;
```

## Passthrough queries

The Google BigQuery connector supports [passthrough queries](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/federated-query-passthrough.html). Passthrough
queries use a table function to push your full query down to the data source for
execution.

To use passthrough queries with Google BigQuery, you can use the following syntax:

```sql

SELECT * FROM TABLE(
        system.query(
            query => 'query string'
        ))
```

The following example query pushes down a query to a data source in Google BigQuery. The query
selects all columns in the `customer` table, limiting the results to 10.

```sql

SELECT * FROM TABLE(
        system.query(
            query => 'SELECT * FROM customer LIMIT 10'
        ))
```

## License information

The Amazon Athena Google BigQuery connector project is licensed under the [Apache-2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

By using this connector, you acknowledge the inclusion of third party components, a list
of which can be found in the [pom.xml](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-athena-query-federation/blob/master/athena-google-bigquery/pom.xml) file for this connector, and agree to the terms in the respective third
party licenses provided in the [LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-athena-query-federation/blob/master/athena-google-bigquery/LICENSE.txt) file on GitHub.com.

## Additional resources

For additional information about this connector, visit [the corresponding site](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-athena-query-federation/tree/master/athena-google-bigquery) on GitHub.com.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

DynamoDB

Google Cloud Storage
