# Amazon Athena AWS CMDB connector

The Amazon Athena AWS CMDB connector enables Athena to communicate with various AWS
services so that you can query them with SQL.

This connector can be registered with Glue Data Catalog as a federated catalog.
It supports data access controls defined in Lake Formation at the catalog, database, table, column, row, and tag levels. This connector uses Glue Connections to centralize configuration properties in Glue.

## Prerequisites

- Deploy the connector to your AWS account using the Athena console or the AWS Serverless Application Repository. For more information, see [Create a data source connection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-to-a-data-source.html) or [Use the AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy a data source connector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-data-source-serverless-app-repo.html).

## Parameters

Use the parameters in this section to configure the AWS CMDB connector.

We recommend that you configure a AWS CMDB connector by using a Glue
connections object. To do this, set the `glue_connection`
environment variable of the AWS CMDB connector Lambda to the name of the Glue
connection to use.

**Glue connections properties**

Use the following command to get the schema for a Glue connection object. This schema contains all the parameters that you can use to control your connection.

```

aws glue describe-connection-type --connection-type CMDB
```

**Lambda environment properties**

glue\_connection – Specifies the name of the Glue connection associated with the federated connector.

###### Note

- All connectors that use Glue connections must use AWS Secrets Manager to store credentials.

- The AWS CMDB connector created using Glue connections does not support the use of a multiplexing handler.

- The AWS CMDB connector created using Glue connections only supports `ConnectionSchemaVersion` 2.

###### Note

Athena data source connectors created on December 3, 2024 and later use AWS Glue connections.

The parameter names and definitions listed below are for Athena data source connectors created without an associated Glue connection. Use the following parameters only when you [manually deploy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/connect-data-source-serverless-app-repo.html) an earlier version of an Athena data source connector or when the
`glue_connection` environment property is not
specified.

**Lambda environment properties**

- spill\_bucket – Specifies the Amazon S3 bucket
for data that exceeds Lambda function limits.

- spill\_prefix – (Optional) Defaults to a
subfolder in the specified `spill_bucket` called
`athena-federation-spill`. We recommend that you
configure an Amazon S3 [storage\
lifecycle](../../../s3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.md) on this location to delete spills older than a
predetermined number of days or hours.

- spill\_put\_request\_headers – (Optional) A
JSON encoded map of request headers and values for the Amazon S3
`putObject` request that is used for spilling (for example,
`{"x-amz-server-side-encryption" : "AES256"}`). For other
possible headers, see [PutObject](../../../s3/latest/api/api-putobject.md) in the
_Amazon Simple Storage Service API Reference_.

- kms\_key\_id – (Optional) By default, any
data that is spilled to Amazon S3 is encrypted using the AES-GCM authenticated
encryption mode and a randomly generated key. To have your Lambda function use
stronger encryption keys generated by KMS like
`a7e63k4b-8loc-40db-a2a1-4d0en2cd8331`, you can specify a KMS key
ID.

- disable\_spill\_encryption – (Optional)
When set to `True`, disables spill encryption. Defaults to
`False` so that data that is spilled to S3 is encrypted using
AES-GCM – either using a randomly generated key or KMS to generate keys.
Disabling spill encryption can improve performance, especially if your spill
location uses [server-side\
encryption](../../../s3/latest/userguide/serv-side-encryption.md).

- default\_ec2\_image\_owner – (Optional)
When set, controls the default Amazon EC2 image owner that filters [Amazon Machine\
Images (AMI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html). If you do not set this value and your query against
the EC2 images table does not include a filter for owner, your results will
include all public images.

## Databases and tables

The Athena AWS CMDB connector makes the following databases and tables available for
querying your AWS resource inventory. For more information on the columns available in
each table, run a `DESCRIBE
                    database.table`
statement using the Athena console or API.

- ec2 – This database contains Amazon EC2
related resources, including the following.

- ebs\_volumes – Contains details of your
Amazon EBS volumes.

- ec2\_instances – Contains details of your
EC2 Instances.

- ec2\_images – Contains details of your
EC2 Instance images.

- routing\_tables – Contains details of
your VPC Routing Tables.

- security\_groups – Contains details of
your security groups.

- subnets – Contains details of your VPC
Subnets.

- vpcs – Contains details of your
VPCs.

- emr – This database contains Amazon EMR
related resources, including the following.

- emr\_clusters – Contains details of your
EMR Clusters.

- rds – This database contains Amazon RDS
related resources, including the following.

- rds\_instances – Contains details of your
RDS Instances.

- s3 – This database contains RDS related
resources, including the following.

- buckets – Contains details of your Amazon S3
buckets.

- objects – Contains details of your Amazon S3
objects, excluding their contents.

## Required Permissions

For full details on the IAM policies that this
connector requires, review the `Policies` section of the [athena-aws-cmdb.yaml](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-athena-query-federation/blob/master/athena-aws-cmdb/athena-aws-cmdb.yaml) file. The following list summarizes the required permissions.

- Amazon S3 write access – The connector requires write access to a location in Amazon S3 in order to spill results from large queries.

- Athena GetQueryExecution – The connector
uses this permission to fast-fail when the upstream Athena query has
terminated.

- S3 List – The connector uses this
permission to list your Amazon S3 buckets and objects.

- EC2 Describe – The connector uses this
permission to describe resources such as your Amazon EC2 instances, security groups,
VPCs, and Amazon EBS volumes.

- EMR Describe / List – The connector uses
this permission to describe your EMR clusters.

- RDS Describe – The connector uses this
permission to describe your RDS Instances.

## Performance

Currently, the Athena AWS CMDB connector does not support parallel scans. Predicate
pushdown is performed within the Lambda function. Where possible, partial predicates are
pushed to the services being queried. For example, a query for the details of a specific
Amazon EC2 instance calls the EC2 API with the specific instance ID to run a targeted
describe operation.

## License information

The Amazon Athena AWS CMDB connector project is licensed under the [Apache-2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Additional resources

For additional information about this connector, visit [the corresponding site](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-athena-query-federation/tree/master/athena-aws-cmdb) on GitHub.com.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

CloudWatch metrics

Db2
