# Okta credentials

A SAML-based authentication mechanism that enables authentication to Athena using the
Okta identity provider. This method assumes that a federation has already been set up
between Athena and Okta.

## Credentials provider

The credentials provider that will be used to authenticate requests to AWS. Set
the value of this parameter to `Okta`.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueValue to useCredentialsProviderAWSCredentialsProviderClass (deprecated)Requirednone`Okta`

## User

The email address of the Okta user to use for authentication with Okta.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueUserUID (deprecated)Requirednone

## Password

The password for the Okta user.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valuePasswordPWD (deprecated)Requirednone

## Okta host name

The URL for your Okta organization. You can extract the `idp_host`
parameter from the **Embed Link** URL in your Okta application. For
steps, see [Retrieve ODBC configuration information from Okta](odbc-okta-plugin.md#odbc-okta-plugin-retrieve-odbc-configuration-information-from-okta). The first segment after `https://`, up to and including
`okta.com`, is your IdP host (for example,
`trial-1234567.okta.com` for a URL that starts with
`https://trial-1234567.okta.com`).

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueOktaHostNameIdP\_Host (deprecated)Requirednone

## Okta application ID

The two-part identifier for your application. You can extract the application ID
from the **Embed Link** URL in your Okta application. For steps,
see [Retrieve ODBC configuration information from Okta](odbc-okta-plugin.md#odbc-okta-plugin-retrieve-odbc-configuration-information-from-okta). The application ID is the last two segments of the URL, including the forward
slash in the middle. The segments are two 20-character strings with a mix of numbers
and upper and lowercase letters (for example,
`Abc1de2fghi3J45kL678/abc1defghij2klmNo3p4`).

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueOktaAppIdApp\_ID (deprecated)Requirednone

## Okta application name

The name of your Okta application.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueOktaAppNameApp\_Name (deprecated)Requirednone

## Okta MFA type

If you have set up Okta to require multi-factor authentication (MFA), you need to
specify the Okta MFA type and additional parameters depending on the second factor
that you want to use.

Okta MFA type is the second authentication factor type (after the password) to use
to authenticate with Okta. Supported second factors include push notifications
delivered through the Okta Verify app and temporary one-time passwords (TOTPs)
generated by Okta Verify, Google Authenticator, or sent through SMS. Individual
organization security policies determine whether or not MFA is required for user
login.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valuePossible valuesOktaMfaTypeokta\_mfa\_type (deprecated)Required, if Okta is set up to require MFAnone`oktaverifywithpush`, `oktaverifywithtotp`,
`googleauthenticator`,
`smsauthentication`

## Okta phone number

The phone number to which Okta will send a temporary one-time password using SMS
when the `smsauthentication` MFA type is chosen. The phone number must be
a US or Canadian phone number.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueOktaPhoneNumberokta\_phone\_number (deprecated)Required, if OktaMfaType is
`smsauthentication`none

## Okta MFA wait time

The duration, in seconds, to wait for the user to acknowledge a push notification
from Okta before the driver throws a timeout exception.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueOktaMfaWaitTimeokta\_mfa\_wait\_time (deprecated)Optional60

## Preferred role

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the role to assume. For information about ARN
roles, see [AssumeRole](../../../../reference/sts/latest/apireference/api-assumerole.md) in the
_AWS Security Token Service API Reference_.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valuePreferredRolepreferred\_role (deprecated)Optionalnone

## Role session duration

The duration, in seconds, of the role session. For more information, see [AssumeRole](../../../../reference/sts/latest/apireference/api-assumerole.md) in the _AWS Security Token Service API Reference_.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueRoleSessionDurationDuration (deprecated)Optional3600

## Lake Formation enabled

Specifies whether to use the [AssumeDecoratedRoleWithSAML](../../../../reference/lake-formation/latest/apireference/api-assumedecoratedrolewithsaml.md) Lake Formation API action to retrieve temporary IAM
credentials instead of the [AssumeRoleWithSAML](../../../../reference/sts/latest/apireference/api-assumerolewithsaml.md) AWS STS API action.

Parameter nameAliasParameter typeDefault valueLakeFormationEnablednoneOptionalFALSE

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Azure AD

Ping

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
