# Set up a method request in API Gateway

Setting up a method request involves performing the following tasks, after creating a
[RestApi](../api/api-restapi.md) resource:

1. Creating a new API or choosing an existing API [Resource](../api/api-resource.md) entity.

2. Creating an API [Method](../api/api-method.md)
    resource that is a specific HTTP verb on the new or chosen API
    `Resource`. This task can be further divided into the following
    sub tasks:

- Adding an HTTP method to the method request

- Configuring request parameters

- Defining a model for the request body

- Enacting an authorization scheme

- Enabling request validation

You can perform these tasks using the following methods:

- [API Gateway\
console](how-to-set-up-method-using-console.md#how-to-method-settings-callers-console)

- AWS CLI commands ( [create-resource](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-resource.md) and [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md))

- AWS SDK functions (for example, in Node.js, [createResource](../../../../reference/awsjavascriptsdk/latest/aws/apigateway.md#createResource-property) and [putMethod](../../../../reference/awsjavascriptsdk/latest/aws/apigateway.md#putMethod-property))

- API Gateway REST API ( [resource:create](../api/api-createresource.md) and [method:put](../api/api-putmethod.md)).

###### Topics

- [Set up API resources](#setup-method-resources)

- [Set up an HTTP method](#setup-method-add-http-method)

- [Set up method request parameters](#setup-method-request-parameters)

- [Set up a method request model](#setup-method-request-model)

- [Set up method request authorization](#setup-method-request-authorization)

- [Set up method request validation](#setup-method-request-validation)

## Set up API resources

In an API Gateway API, you expose addressable resources as a tree of API [Resources](../api/api-getresources.md) entities, with the root
resource ( `/`) at the top of the hierarchy. The root resource is relative
to the API's base URL, which consists of the API endpoint and a stage name. In the
API Gateway console, this base URI is referred to as the **Invoke URI**
and is displayed in the API's stage editor after the API is deployed.

The API endpoint can be a default host name or a custom domain name. The default
host name is of the following format:

```nohighlight

{api-id}.execute-api.{region}.amazonaws.com
```

In this format, the `{api-id}` represents the API
identifier that is generated by API Gateway. The
`{region}` variable represents the AWS
Region (for example, `us-east-1`) that you chose when creating the API. A
custom domain name is any user-friendly name under a valid internet domain. For
example, if you have registered an internet domain of `example.com`, any
of `*.example.com` is a valid custom domain name. For more information,
see [create a custom domain name](how-to-custom-domains.md).

For the [PetStore sample\
API](api-gateway-create-api-from-example.md), the root resource ( `/`) exposes the pet store. The
`/pets` resource represents the collection of pets available in the
pet store. The `/pets/{petId}` exposes an individual pet of a given
identifier ( `petId`). The path parameter of `{petId}` is part
of the request parameters.

To set up an API resource, you choose an existing resource as its parent and then
create the child resource under this parent resource. You start with the root
resource as a parent, add a resource to this parent, add another resource to this
child resource as the new parent, and so on, to its parent identifier. Then you add
the named resource to the parent.

The following [get-resources](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/get-resources.md) command
retrieves all the resources of an API:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway get-resources --rest-api-id apiId
```

For the PetStore sample API, the output looks like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "items": [
        {
            "path": "/pets",
            "resourceMethods": {
                "GET": {}
            },
            "id": "6sxz2j",
            "pathPart": "pets",
            "parentId": "svzr2028x8"
        },
        {
            "path": "/pets/{petId}",
            "resourceMethods": {
                "GET": {}
            },
            "id": "rjkmth",
            "pathPart": "{petId}",
            "parentId": "6sxz2j"
        },
        {
            "path": "/",
            "id": "svzr2028x8"
        }
    ]
}
```

Each item lists the identifiers of the resource ( `id`) and, except for
the root resource, its immediate parent ( `parentId`), as well as the
resource name ( `pathPart`). The root resource is special in that it does
not have any parent. After choosing a resource as the parent, use the following
command to add a child resource:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-resource --rest-api-id apiId \
    --parent-id parentId \
    --path-part resourceName
```

For example, to add pet food for sale on the PetStore website, use the following command:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-resource --rest-api-id a1b2c3 \
    --parent-id svzr2028x8 \
    --path-part food
```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "path": "/food",
    "pathPart": "food",
    "id": "xdsvhp",
    "parentId": "svzr2028x8"
}
```

### Use a proxy resource to streamline API setup

As business grows, the PetStore owner may decide to add food, toys, and other
pet-related items for sale. To support this, you can add `/food`,
`/toys`, and other resources under the root resource. Under each
sale category, you may also want to add more resources, such as
`/food/{type}/{item}`, `/toys/{type}/{item}`, etc.
This can get tedious. If you decide to add a middle layer `{subtype}`
to the resource paths to change the path hierarchy into
`/food/{type}/{subtype}/{item}`,
`/toys/{type}/{subtype}/{item}`, etc., the changes will break the
existing API set up. To avoid this, you can use an API Gateway [proxy resource](api-gateway-set-up-simple-proxy.md) to expose a
set of API resources all at once.

API Gateway defines a proxy resource as a placeholder for a resource to be specified when the request is
submitted. A proxy resource is expressed by a special path parameter of `{proxy+}`, often referred
to as a greedy path parameter. The `+` sign indicates whichever child resources are appended to it.
The `/parent/{proxy+}` placeholder stands for any resource matching the path pattern of
`/parent/*`. You can use any string for the greedy path parameter name.

The following [create-resource](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-resource.md) command
creates a proxy resource under the root ( `/{proxy+}`):

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-resource --rest-api-id apiId \
    --parent-id rootResourceId \
    --path-part {proxy+}
```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "path": "/{proxy+}",
    "pathPart": "{proxy+}",
    "id": "234jdr",
    "parentId": "svzr2028x8"
}
```

For the `PetStore` API example, you can use `/{proxy+}`
to represent both the `/pets` and `/pets/{petId}`. This
proxy resource can also reference any other (existing or to-be-added) resources,
such as `/food/{type}/{item}`, `/toys/{type}/{item}`,
etc., or `/food/{type}/{subtype}/{item}`,
`/toys/{type}/{subtype}/{item}`, etc. The backend developer
determines the resource hierarchy and the client developer is responsible for
understanding it. API Gateway simply passes whatever the client submitted to the
backend.

An API can have more than one proxy resource. For example, the following proxy
resources are allowed within an API, assuming `/parent/{proxy+}` is not the same parent as `/parent/{child}/{proxy+}`.

```nohighlight

/{proxy+}
/parent/{proxy+}
/parent/{child}/{proxy+}
```

When a proxy resource has non-proxy siblings, the sibling resources are
excluded from the representation of the proxy resource. For the preceding
examples, `/{proxy+}` refers to any resources under the root resource
except for the `/parent[/*]` resources. In other words, a method
request against a specific resource takes precedence over a method request
against a generic resource at the same level of the resource hierarchy.

The following table shows how API Gateway routes requests to the following resources for the `prod`
stage of an API.

```nohighlight

ANY /{proxy+}
GET /pets/{proxy+}
GET /pets/dog
```

RequestSelected routeExplanation

`GET https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/prod/pets/dog`

`GET /pets/dog`

The request fully matches this resource.

`GET https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/prod/pets/cats`

`GET /pets/{proxy+}`

The `/pets/{proxy+}` greedy path variable catches this request.

`GET https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/prod/animals`

`GET /{proxy+}`

The `/{proxy+}` greedy path variable catches this request.

A proxy resource cannot have any child resource. Any API resource after
`{proxy+}` is redundant and ambiguous. The following proxy
resources are not allowed within an API.

```nohighlight

/{proxy+}/child
/parent/{proxy+}/{child}
/parent/{child}/{proxy+}/{grandchild+}
```

## Set up an HTTP method

An API method request is encapsulated by the API Gateway [Method](../api/api-method.md) resource. To set up the
method request, you must first instantiate the `Method` resource, setting
at least an HTTP method and an authorization type on the method.

Closely associated with the proxy resource, API Gateway supports an HTTP method of
`ANY`. This `ANY` method represents any HTTP method that
is to be supplied at run time. It allows you to use a single API method setup for
all of the supported HTTP methods of `DELETE`, `GET`,
`HEAD`, `OPTIONS`, `PATCH`, `POST`,
and `PUT`.

You can set up the `ANY` method on a non-proxy resource as well.
Combining the `ANY` method with a proxy resource, you get a single API
method setup for all of the supported HTTP methods against any resources of an API.
Furthermore, the backend can evolve without breaking the existing API setup.

Before setting up an API method, consider who can call the method. Set the
authorization type according to your plan. For open access, set it to
`NONE`. To use IAM permissions, set the authorization type to
`AWS_IAM`. To use a Lambda authorizer function, set this
property to `CUSTOM`. To use an Amazon Cognito user pool, set the
authorization type to `COGNITO_USER_POOLS`.

The following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md) command creates a
method request for the `ANY` verb using IAM permissions to control its access.

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method --rest-api-id vaz7da96z6 \
    --resource-id 6sxz2j \
    --http-method ANY \
    --authorization-type AWS_IAM
```

To create an API method request with a different authorization type, see [Set up method request authorization](#setup-method-request-authorization).

## Set up method request parameters

Method request parameters are a way for a client to provide input data or
execution context necessary to complete the method request. A method parameter can
be a path parameter, a header, or a query string parameter. As part of method
request setup, you must declare required request parameters to make them available
for the client. For non-proxy integration, you can translate these request
parameters to a form that is compatible with the backend requirement.

For example, for the `GET /pets/{petId}` method request, the `{petId}` path variable
is a required request parameter. You can declare this path parameter when calling the `put-method`
command of the AWS CLI. The following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md)
command creates a method with a required path parameter:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method --rest-api-id vaz7da96z6 \
    --resource-id rjkmth \
    --http-method GET \
    --authorization-type "NONE" \
    --request-parameters method.request.path.petId=true
```

If a parameter is not required, you can set it to `false` in `request-parameters`. For
example, if the `GET /pets` method uses an optional query string parameter of `type`, and
an optional header parameter of `age`, you can declare them using the following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md) command:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method --rest-api-id vaz7da96z6 \
    --resource-id 6sxz2j \
    --http-method GET \
    --authorization-type "NONE" \
    --request-parameters method.request.querystring.type=false,method.request.header.age=false
```

Instead of this abbreviated form, you can use a JSON string to set the
`request-parameters` value:

```nohighlight

'{"method.request.querystring.type":false,"method.request.header.age":false}'
```

With this setup, the client can query pets by type:

```nohighlight

GET /pets?type=dog
```

And the client can query dogs who are puppies as follows:

```nohighlight

GET /pets?type=dog
age:puppy
```

For information on how to map method request parameters to integration request
parameters, see [Integrations for REST APIs in API Gateway](how-to-integration-settings.md).

## Set up a method request model

For an API method that can take input data in a payload, you can use a model. A
model is expressed in a [JSON schema draft\
4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04) and describes the data structure of the request body. With a model, a
client can determine how to construct a method request payload as input. More
importantly, API Gateway uses the model to [validate a request](api-gateway-method-request-validation.md), [generate an SDK](../../../../reference/apigateway/latest/developerguide/how-to-generate-sdk.md), and initialize a mapping
template for setting up the integration in the API Gateway console. For information about
how to create a [model](../api/api-model.md), see [Understanding data models](models-mappings-models.md).

Depending on the content types, a method payload can have different formats. A model is indexed against the
media type of the applied payload. API Gateway uses the `Content-Type` request header to determine the
content type. To set up method request models, add key-value pairs of the
`"media-type":"model-name"`
format to the `requestModels` map when calling the AWS CLI `put-method` command.

To use the same model regardless of the content type, specify `$default` as the key.

For example, to set a model on the JSON payload of the `POST /pets` method request of the
PetStore example API, you can use the following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md) command:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method \
    --rest-api-id vaz7da96z6 \
    --resource-id 6sxz2j \
    --http-method POST \
    --authorization-type "NONE" \
    --request-models '{"application/json":"petModel"}'
```

Here, `petModel` is the `name` property value of a [`Model`](../api/api-model.md) resource
describing a pet. The actual schema definition is expressed as a JSON string value
of the [`schema`](../api/api-model.md#schema)
property of the `Model` resource.

In a Java, or other strongly typed SDK, of the API, the input data is cast as the
`petModel` class derived from the schema definition. With the request
model, the input data in the generated SDK is cast into the `Empty`
class, which is derived from the default `Empty` model. In this case, the
client cannot instantiate the correct data class to provide the required input.

## Set up method request authorization

To control who can call the API method, you can configure the [authorization type](../api/api-method.md#authorizationType)
on the method. You can use this type to enact one of the supported authorizers,
including IAM roles and policies ( `AWS_IAM`), an Amazon Cognito user pool
( `COGNITO_USER_POOLS`), or a Lambda authorizer
( `CUSTOM`).

To use IAM permissions to authorize access to the API method, set the
`authorization-type` input property to `AWS_IAM`. When you set this option,
API Gateway verifies the caller's signature on the request based on the caller's credentials. If the verified user has
permission to call the method, it accepts the request. Otherwise, it rejects the request and the caller receives
an unauthorized error response. The call to the method doesn't succeed unless the caller has permission to
invoke the API method. The following IAM policy grants
permission to the caller to call any API methods created within the same AWS account:

JSON

```json

{
    "Version":"2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "execute-api:Invoke"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:execute-api:*:*:*"
        }
    ]
}

```

For more information, see [Control access to a REST API with IAM permissions](permissions.md).

Currently, you can only grant this policy to the users, groups, and roles within the API owner's
AWS account. Users from a different AWS account can call the API methods only if allowed to assume a role
within the API owner's AWS account with the necessary permissions to call the `execute-api:Invoke`
action. For information on cross-account permissions, see [Using IAM Roles](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-use.md).

You can use AWS CLI, an AWS SDK, or a REST API client, such as [Postman](https://www.postman.com/), which implements
[Signature Version 4\
(SigV4) signing](../../../iam/latest/userguide/create-signed-request.md).

To use a Lambda authorizer to authorize access to the API method, set the
`authorization-type` input property to `CUSTOM` and set
the [`authorizer-id`](../api/api-method.md#authorizerId) input property to the [`id`](../api/api-authorizer.md#id) property
value of a Lambda authorizer that already exists. The referenced Lambda authorizer can
be of the `TOKEN` or `REQUEST` type. For information about
creating a Lambda authorizer, see [Use API Gateway Lambda authorizers](apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.md).

To use an Amazon Cognito user pool to authorize access to the API method, set the
`authorization-type` input property to
`COGNITO_USER_POOLS` and set the [`authorizer-id`](../api/api-method.md#authorizerId) input property to the [`id`](../api/api-authorizer.md#id) property
value of the `COGNITO_USER_POOLS` authorizer that was already created.
For information about creating an Amazon Cognito user pool authorizer, see [Control access to REST APIs using Amazon Cognito user pools as an authorizer](apigateway-integrate-with-cognito.md).

## Set up method request validation

You can enable request validation when setting up an API method request. You need to first create a [request validator](../api/api-requestvalidator.md). The following [create-request-validator](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-request-validator.md) command creates a
body-only request validator.

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-request-validator \
    --rest-api-id 7zw9uyk9kl \
    --name bodyOnlyValidator \
    --validate-request-body  \
    --no-validate-request-parameters

```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "validateRequestParameters": false,
    "validateRequestBody": true,
    "id": "jgpyy6",
    "name": "bodyOnlyValidator"
}
```

You can use this request validator, to use request validation as part of the method request setup. The
following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md) command creates a method
request that requires the incoming request body to match the `PetModel` and has two request parameter
that aren't required:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method \
    --rest-api-id 7zw9uyk9kl \
    --resource-id xdsvhp \
    --http-method PUT \
    --authorization-type "NONE" \
    --request-parameters '{"method.request.querystring.type": false, "method.request.querystring.page":false}' \
    --request-models '{"application/json":"petModel"}' \
    --request-validator-id jgpyy6
```

To include a request parameter in the request validation, you must set
`validateRequestParameters` to `true` for the request validator, and set the specific
request parameter to `true` in the `put-method` command.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Methods

Set up method response

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
