# Set up AWS X-Ray with API Gateway REST APIs

In this section you can find detailed information on how to set up [AWS X-Ray](../../../xray/latest/devguide/xray-services-apigateway.md) with API Gateway REST APIs.

###### Topics

- [X-Ray tracing modes for API Gateway](#apigateway-tracing-modes)

- [Permissions for X-Ray tracing](#set-up-xray-tracing-permissions)

- [Enabling X-Ray tracing in the API Gateway console](#apigateway-xray-console-setup)

- [Enabling AWS X-Ray tracing using the API Gateway CLI](#apigateway-xray-cli-setup)

## X-Ray tracing modes for API Gateway

The path of a request through your application is tracked with a trace ID. A trace
collects all of the segments generated by a single request, typically an
HTTP
`GET` or `POST` request.

There are two modes of tracing for an API Gateway API:

- **Passive**: This is the default setting if
you have not enabled X-Ray tracing on an API stage. This approach means that
the API Gateway API is only traced if X-Ray has been enabled on an upstream service.

- **Active**: When an API Gateway API stage has this
setting, API Gateway automatically samples API invocation requests, based on the
sampling algorithm specified by X-Ray.

When active tracing is enabled on a stage, API Gateway creates a service-linked role in your
account, if the role does not exist already. The role is named
`AWSServiceRoleForAPIGateway` and will have the
`APIGatewayServiceRolePolicy` managed policy attached to it. For more
information about service-linked roles, see [Using Service-Linked\
Roles](../../../iam/latest/userguide/using-service-linked-roles.md).

###### Note

X-Ray applies a sampling algorithm to ensure that tracing is efficient,
while still providing a representative sample of the requests that your API
receives. The default sampling algorithm is 1 request per second, with 5
percent of requests sampled past that limit.

You can change the tracing mode for your API by using the API Gateway management console,
the API Gateway CLI, or an AWS SDK.

## Permissions for X-Ray tracing

When you enable X-Ray
tracing on a stage, API Gateway creates a service-linked role in your account, if the role
does not exist already. The role is named `AWSServiceRoleForAPIGateway` and
will have the `APIGatewayServiceRolePolicy` managed policy attached to it.
For more information about service-linked roles, see [Using Service-Linked\
Roles](../../../iam/latest/userguide/using-service-linked-roles.md).

## Enabling X-Ray tracing in the API Gateway console

You can use the Amazon API Gateway console to enable active tracing on an API stage.

These steps assume that you have already deployed the API to a stage.

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose your API, and then in the main navigation pane, choose
    **Stages**.

3. In the **Stages** pane, choose a stage.

4. In the
    **Logs and tracing** section, choose **Edit**.

5. To enable active X-Ray tracing, select **X-Ray**
**tracing** to turn on X-Ray tracing.

6. Choose **Save changes**.

Once you've enabled X-Ray for your API stage, you can use the X-Ray management
console to view the traces and service maps.

## Enabling AWS X-Ray tracing using the API Gateway CLI

The following [create-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-stage.md) command creates a stage with active X-Ray tracing:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-stage \
    --rest-api-id rest-api-id \
    --stage-name stage-name \
    --deployment-id deployment-id \
    --region region \
    --tracing-enabled=true
```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "tracingEnabled": true,
    "stageName": stage-name,
    "cacheClusterEnabled": false,
    "cacheClusterStatus": "NOT_AVAILABLE",
    "deploymentId": deployment-id,
    "lastUpdatedDate": 1533849811,
    "createdDate": 1533849811,
    "methodSettings": {}
}
```

The following [create-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-stage.md) command creates a stage without active X-Ray tracing:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-stage \
    --rest-api-id rest-api-id \
    --stage-name stage-name \
    --deployment-id deployment-id \
    --region region \
    --tracing-enabled=false
```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "tracingEnabled": false,
    "stageName": stage-name,
    "cacheClusterEnabled": false,
    "cacheClusterStatus": "NOT_AVAILABLE",
    "deploymentId": deployment-id,
    "lastUpdatedDate": 1533849811,
    "createdDate": 1533849811,
    "methodSettings": {}
}
```

The following [update-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/update-stage.md) turns on active X-Ray tracing for a deployed API:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway update-stage \
    --rest-api-id rest-api-id \
    --stage-name stage-name \
    --patch-operations op=replace,path=/tracingEnabled,value=true
```

The following [update-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/update-stage.md) turns off active X-Ray tracing for a deployed API:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway update-stage \
    --rest-api-id rest-api-id \
    --stage-name stage-name \
    --region region \
    --patch-operations op=replace,path=/tracingEnabled,value=false
```

The output will look like the following:

```nohighlight

{
    "tracingEnabled": false,
    "stageName": stage-name,
    "cacheClusterEnabled": false,
    "cacheClusterStatus": "NOT_AVAILABLE",
    "deploymentId": deployment-id,
    "lastUpdatedDate": 1533850033,
    "createdDate": 1533849811,
    "methodSettings": {}
}
```

Once you've enabled X-Ray for your API stage, use the X-Ray CLI to retrieve trace
information. For more information, see
[Using the\
X-Ray API with the AWS CLI](../../../xray/latest/devguide/aws-xray-interface-api.md#xray-api-tutorial).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

X-Ray

Use AWS X-Ray service maps and trace views

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
