# Configure an API Gateway Lambda authorizer

After you create a Lambda function, you configure the Lambda function as an authorizer for your API. You then
configure your method to invoke your Lambda authorizer to determine if a caller can invoke your method. You can
create a Lambda function in the same account, or a different account, from where you created your API.

You can test your Lambda authorizer using built-in tools in the API Gateway console or by using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/). For instructions for how to use Postman to test your Lambda
authorizer function, see [Call an API with an API Gateway Lambda authorizer](call-api-with-api-gateway-lambda-authorization.md).

## Configure a Lambda authorizer (console)

The following procedure shows how to create a Lambda authorizer in the API Gateway REST API console. To learn more
about the different types of Lambda authorizers, see [Choosing a type of Lambda authorizer](apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.md#api-gateway-lambda-authorizer-choose).

REQUEST authorizer

###### To configure a `REQUEST` Lambda authorizer

01. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

02. Select an API, and then choose **Authorizers**.

03. Choose **Create authorizer**.

04. For **Authorizer name**, enter a name for the authorizer.

05. For **Authorizer type**, select **Lambda**.

06. For **Lambda function**, select the AWS Region where you created your Lambda authorizer
     function, and then enter the function name.

07. Keep **Lambda invoke role** blank to let the API Gateway REST API console set a resource-based policy.
     The policy grants API Gateway permissions to invoke the Lambda authorizer function. You can also choose to enter the
     name of an IAM role to allow API Gateway to invoke the Lambda authorizer function. For an example role,
     see [Create an assumable IAM role](integrating-api-with-aws-services-lambda.md#api-as-lambda-proxy-setup-iam-role-policies).

08. For **Lambda event payload**, select **Request**.

09. For **Identity source type**, select a parameter type. Supported parameter types are `Header`,
     `Query string`, `Stage
                    variable`, and `Context`. To add more identity sources, choose **Add**
    **parameter**.

10. To cache the authorization policy generated by the authorizer, keep **Authorization**
    **caching** turned on. When policy caching is enabled, you can modify the
     **TTL** value. Setting the **TTL** to zero disables policy caching.

    If you enable caching, your authorizer must return a policy that is applicable to all methods across an
     API. To enforce a method-specific policy, use the context variables `$context.path` and
     `$context.httpMethod`.

11. Choose **Create authorizer**.

TOKEN authorizer

###### To configure a `TOKEN` Lambda authorizer

01. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

02. Select an API, and then choose **Authorizers**.

03. Choose **Create authorizer**.

04. For **Authorizer name**, enter a name for the authorizer.

05. For **Authorizer type**, select **Lambda**.

06. For **Lambda function**, select the AWS Region where you created your Lambda authorizer
     function, and then enter the function name.

07. Keep **Lambda invoke role** blank to let the API Gateway REST API console set a resource-based policy.
     The policy grants API Gateway permissions to invoke the Lambda authorizer function. You can also choose to enter the
     name of an IAM role to allow API Gateway to invoke the Lambda authorizer function. For an example role,
     see [Create an assumable IAM role](integrating-api-with-aws-services-lambda.md#api-as-lambda-proxy-setup-iam-role-policies).

08. For **Lambda event payload**, select **Token**.

09. For **Token source**, enter the header name that contains the authorization token. The caller must include a
     header of this name to send the authorization token to the Lambda authorizer.

10. (Optional) For **Token validation**, enter a RegEx statement. API Gateway performs
     initial validation of the input token against this expression and invokes the authorizer upon
     successful validation.

11. To cache the authorization policy generated by the authorizer, keep **Authorization**
    **caching** turned on. When policy caching is enabled, the header name specified in **Token source** becomes
     the cache key. When policy caching is enabled, you can modify the
     **TTL** value. Setting the **TTL** to zero disables policy caching.

    If you enable caching, your authorizer must return a policy that is applicable to all methods across an
     API. To enforce a method-specific policy, you can turn off **Authorization caching**.

12. Choose **Create authorizer**.

After your create your Lambda authorizer, you can test it. The following procedure shows how to test your Lambda authorizer.

REQUEST authorizer

###### To test a `REQUEST` Lambda authorizer

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Select the name of your authorizer.

3. Under **Test authorizer**, enter a value for your identity source.

If you are using the [Example REQUEST authorizer Lambda function](apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.md#api-gateway-lambda-authorizer-request-lambda-function-create), do the following:

1. Select **Header** and enter
       `headerValue1`, and then choose **Add parameter**.

2. Under **Identity source type**, select **Query string**
       and enter
       `queryValue1`, and then choose **Add parameter**.

3. Under **Identity source type**, select **Stage variable**
       and enter
       `stageValue1`.

You can't modify the context variables for the test invocation, but you can modify the **API Gateway**
**Authorizer** test event template for your Lambda function. Then, you can test your Lambda
authorizer function with modified context variables. For more information, see [Testing Lambda functions in the console](../../../lambda/latest/dg/testing-functions.md) in the
_AWS Lambda Developer Guide_.

4. Choose **Test authorizer**.

TOKEN authorizer

###### To test a `TOKEN` Lambda authorizer

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Select the name of your authorizer.

3. Under **Test authorizer**, enter a value for your token.

If you are using the [Example TOKEN authorizer Lambda function](apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.md#api-gateway-lambda-authorizer-token-lambda-function-create), do the following:
1. For the **authorizationToken**, enter `allow`.
4. Choose **Test authorizer**.

    If your Lambda authorizer successfully denies a request in the test environment, the test responds with
    a `200 OK` HTTP response. However, outside of the test environment, API Gateway
    returns a `403 Forbidden` HTTP response and the method request fails.

## Configure a Lambda authorizer (AWS CLI)

The following [create-authorizer](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-authorizer.md)
command shows to create a Lambda authorizer using the AWS CLI.

REQUEST authorizer

The following [create-authorizer](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-authorizer.md)
command creates a `REQUEST` authorizer and uses the `Authorizer` header and
`accountId` context variable as identity sources:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-authorizer \
    --rest-api-id 1234123412 \
    --name 'First_Request_Custom_Authorizer' \
    --type REQUEST \
    --authorizer-uri 'arn:aws:apigateway:us-west-2:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:123412341234:function:customAuthFunction/invocations' \
    --identity-source 'method.request.header.Authorization,context.accountId' \
    --authorizer-result-ttl-in-seconds 300
```

TOKEN authorizer

The following [create-authorizer](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/create-authorizer.md)
command creates a
`TOKEN` authorizer and uses the `Authorization` header as the
identity source:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway create-authorizer \
    --rest-api-id 1234123412 \
    --name 'First_Token_Custom_Authorizer' \
    --type TOKEN \
    --authorizer-uri 'arn:aws:apigateway:us-west-2:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:123412341234:function:customAuthFunction/invocations' \
    --identity-source 'method.request.header.Authorization' \
    --authorizer-result-ttl-in-seconds 300
```

After your create your Lambda authorizer, you can test it. The following [test-invoke-authorizer](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/test-invoke-authorizer.md) command tests a
Lambda authorizer:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway test-invoke-authorizer --rest-api-id 1234123412 \
   --authorizer-id efg1234 \
   --headers Authorization='Value'
```

## Configure a method to use a Lambda authorizer (console)

After you configure your Lambda authorizer, you must attach it to a method for your API. If your authorizer
uses authorization caching, make sure you update the policy to control access for the additional method.

###### To configure an API method to use a Lambda authorizer

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Select an API.

3. Choose **Resources**, and then choose a new method or choose an existing method.

4. On the **Method request** tab, under **Method request settings**, choose **Edit**.

5. For **Authorizer**, from the dropdown menu, select the Lambda authorizer you just created.

6. (Optional) If you want to pass the authorization token to the backend, choose **HTTP request**
**headers**. Choose **Add header**, and then add the name of the authorization
    header. For **Name**, enter the header name that matches the **Token source**
    name you specified when you created the Lambda authorizer for the API. This step does not apply to
    `REQUEST` authorizers.

7. Choose **Save**.

8. Choose **Deploy API** to deploy the API to a stage. For a `REQUEST` authorizer using stage
    variables, you must also define the required stage variables and specify their values while on the **Stages** page.

## Configure a method to use a Lambda authorizer (AWS CLI)

After you configure your Lambda authorizer, you must attach it to a method for your API. You can create a new
method or use a patch operation to attach an authorizer to an existing method. If your authorizer uses
authorization caching, make sure you update the policy to control access for the additional method.

The following [put-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/put-method.md) command creates a new method that uses an Lambda authorizer:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway put-method --rest-api-id 1234123412 \
  --resource-id a1b2c3 \
  --http-method PUT \
  --authorization-type CUSTOM \
  --authorizer-id efg1234
```

The following [update-method](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/update-method.md) command update an existing method to use a Lambda authorizer:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway update-method \
    --rest-api-id 1234123412 \
    --resource-id a1b2c3 \
    --http-method PUT \
    --patch-operations op="replace",path="/authorizationType",value="CUSTOM" op="replace",path="/authorizerId",value="efg1234"
```

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Use Lambda authorizers

Input to a Lambda authorizer

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
