# Generate and configure an SSL certificate for backend authentication in API Gateway

You can use API Gateway to generate an SSL certificate and then use its public key in the
backend to verify that HTTP requests to your backend system are from API Gateway. This allows your
HTTP backend to control and accept only requests that originate from Amazon API Gateway, even if the
backend is publicly accessible.

###### Note

Some backend servers might not support SSL client authentication as API Gateway does and could
return an SSL certificate error. For a list of incompatible backend servers, see [Amazon API Gateway important notes](api-gateway-known-issues.md).

The SSL certificates that are generated by API Gateway are self-signed, and only the public key
of a certificate is visible in the API Gateway console or through the APIs.

###### Topics

- [Generate a client certificate using the API Gateway console](#generate-client-certificate)

- [Configure an API to use SSL certificates](#configure-api)

- [Test invoke to verify the client certificate configuration](#test-invoke)

- [Configure a backend HTTPS server to verify the client certificate](#certificate-validation)

- [Rotate an expiring client certificate](#certificate-rotation)

- [API Gateway-supported certificate authorities for HTTP and HTTP proxy integrations in API Gateway](api-gateway-supported-certificate-authorities-for-http-endpoints.md)

## Generate a client certificate using the API Gateway console

1. Open the API Gateway console at
    [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose a REST or WebSocket API.

3. In the main navigation pane, choose **Client certificates**.

4. From the **Client certificates** page, choose **Generate certificate**.

5. (Optional) For **Description**, enter a description.

6. Choose **Generate certificate** to generate the certificate. API Gateway generates a new
    certificate and returns the new certificate GUID, along with the PEM-encoded public key.

You're now ready to configure an API to use the certificate.

## Configure an API to use SSL certificates

These instructions assume that you already completed [Generate a client certificate using the API Gateway console](#generate-client-certificate).

1. In the API Gateway console, create or open an REST or WebSocket API for which you want to use the client
    certificate. Make sure that the API has been deployed to a stage.

2. In the main navigation pane, choose **Stages**.

3. In the **Stage details** section, choose **Edit**.

4. For **Client certificate**, select a certificate.

5. Choose **Save changes**.

After a certificate is selected for the API and saved, API Gateway uses the certificate for
all calls to HTTP integrations in your API.

## Test invoke to verify the client certificate configuration

1. Choose a REST API method. Choose the **Test** tab. You might need to choose the right
    arrow button to show the **Test** tab.

2. For **Client certificate**, select a certificate.

3. Choose
    **Test**.

API Gateway presents the chosen SSL certificate for the HTTP backend to authenticate the API.

## Configure a backend HTTPS server to verify the client certificate

These instructions assume that you already completed [Generate a client certificate using the API Gateway console](#generate-client-certificate)
and downloaded a copy of the client certificate. You can download a client certificate
by calling [`clientcertificate:by-id`](../api/api-getclientcertificate.md) of the API Gateway REST API or [`get-client-certificate`](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/get-client-certificate.md) of AWS CLI.

Before configuring a backend HTTPS server to verify the client SSL certificate of
API Gateway, you must have obtained the PEM-encoded private key and a server-side certificate
that is provided by a trusted certificate authority.

If the server domain name is `myserver.mydomain.com`, the server
certificate's CNAME value must be `myserver.mydomain.com` or
`*.mydomain.com`.

Supported certificate authorities include [Let's\
Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) or one of [API Gateway-supported certificate authorities for HTTP and HTTP proxy integrations in API Gateway](api-gateway-supported-certificate-authorities-for-http-endpoints.md).

As an example, suppose that the client certificate file is `apig-cert.pem`
and the server private key and certificate files are `server-key.pem` and
`server-cert.pem`, respectively. For a Node.js server in the backend, you
can configure the server similar to the following:

```nohighlight

var fs = require('fs');
var https = require('https');
var options = {
    key: fs.readFileSync('server-key.pem'),
    cert: fs.readFileSync('server-cert.pem'),
    ca: fs.readFileSync('apig-cert.pem'),
    requestCert: true,
    rejectUnauthorized: true
};
https.createServer(options, function (req, res) {
    res.writeHead(200);
    res.end("hello world\n");
}).listen(443);
```

For a node- [express](http://expressjs.com/) app, you can use the
[client-certificate-auth](https://www.npmjs.com/package/client-certificate-auth) modules to authenticate client requests with
PEM-encoded certificates.

For other HTTPS server, see the documentation for the server.

## Rotate an expiring client certificate

The client certificate generated by API Gateway is valid for 365 days. You must rotate the
certificate before a client certificate on an API stage expires to avoid any downtime
for the API.

### Rotate an expiring client certificate using the AWS Management Console

The following procedure shows how to rotate a client certificate in the console for a previously deployed API.

1. In the main navigation pane, choose **Client certificates**.

2. From the **Client certificates** pane, choose **Generate certificate**.

3. Open the API for which you want to use the client certificate.

4. Choose **Stages** under the selected API and then choose a stage.

5. In the **Stage details** section, choose **Edit**.

6. For **Client certificate**, select the new certificate.

7. To save the settings, choose **Save changes**.

### Rotate an expiring client certificate using the AWS CLI

You can check the expiration date of certificate by calling [clientCertificate:by-id](../api/api-getclientcertificate.md) of the API Gateway REST API or the AWS CLI command of
[get-client-certificate](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/get-client-certificate.md) and inspecting the returned [expirationDate](../api/api-clientcertificate.md#expirationDate) property.

To rotate a client certificate, do the following:

1. Generate a new client certificate by calling [clientcertificate:generate](../api/api-generateclientcertificate.md) of the API Gateway REST API or the AWS CLI
    command of [generate-client-certificate](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/generate-client-certificate.md). In this tutorial, we assume that the
    new client certificate ID is `ndiqef`.

2. Update the backend server to include the new client certificate. Don't remove
    the existing client certificate yet.

Some servers might require a restart to finish the update. Consult the server
    documentation to see if you must restart the server during the update.

3. Update the API stage to use the new client certificate by calling [stage:update](../api/api-updatestage.md) of the
    API Gateway REST API, with the new client certificate ID ( `ndiqef`):

```nohighlight

PATCH /restapis/{restapi-id}/stages/stage1 HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json
Host: apigateway.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
X-Amz-Date: 20170603T200400Z
Authorization: AWS4-HMAC-SHA256 Credential=...

{
     "patchOperations" : [
       {
           "op" : "replace",
           "path" : "/clientCertificateId",
           "value" : "ndiqef"
       }
     ]
}
```

You can also use the [update-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/update-stage.md) command.

If you are using a WebSocket API, use the `apigatewayv2` [update-stage](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigatewayv2/update-stage.md) command.

4. Update the backend server to remove the old certificate.

5. Delete the old certificate from API Gateway by calling the [clientcertificate:delete](../api/api-deleteclientcertificate.md) of the API Gateway REST API, specifying the
    clientCertificateId ( `a1b2c3`) of the old certificate:

```nohighlight

DELETE /clientcertificates/a1b2c3
```

You can also call the [delete-client-certificate](../../../cli/latest/reference/apigateway/delete-client-certificate.md) command:

```nohighlight

aws apigateway delete-client-certificate --client-certificate-id a1b2c3
```

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Mutual TLS

Supported certificate authorities for HTTP and HTTP proxy integration

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
