# Set up a method using the API Gateway console

When you create a method using the REST API console, you configure both the integration request and the
method request. By default, API Gateway creates the `200` method response for your method.

The following instructions show how to edit the method request settings and how to create additional method responses for your method.

###### Topics

- [Edit an API Gateway method request in the API Gateway console](#how-to-method-settings-callers-console)

- [Set up an API Gateway method response using the API Gateway console](#how-to-method-response-settings-console)

## Edit an API Gateway method request in the API Gateway console

These instructions assume you have already created your method request. For more information on how to
create a method, see [Set up an API integration request using the API Gateway console](how-to-method-settings-console.md).

01. In the **Resources** pane, choose your method, and then
     choose the **Method request** tab.

02. In the **Method request settings** section, choose **Edit**.

03. For **Authorization**, select an
     available authorizer.
    1. To enable open access to the method for any user, select
        **None**. This step can be skipped if the default
        setting has not been changed.

    2. To use IAM permissions to control the client access to the
        method, select `AWS_IAM`. With this choice, only users of
        the IAM roles with the correct IAM policy attached are allowed
        to call this method.

       To create the IAM role, specify an access policy with a format
        like the following:
       JSON

       ```json

       {
         "Version":"2012-10-17",
         "Statement": [
           {
             "Effect": "Allow",
             "Action": [
               "execute-api:Invoke"
             ],
             "Resource": [
               "arn:aws:execute-api:us-east-1:111111111111:aaabbb/*/GET/"
             ]
           }
         ]
       }

       ```

       In this access policy,
        `arn:aws:execute-api:us-east-1:111111111111:aaabbb/*/GET/` is the ARN of your method. You
        can find the ARN of your method by selecting the method on the **Resources** page. For
        more information about setting the IAM permissions, see [Control access to a REST API with IAM permissions](permissions.md).

       To create the IAM role, you can adapt the instructions in the following tutorial, [Create a Lambda function for Lambda non-proxy integration](getting-started-lambda-non-proxy-integration.md#getting-started-new-lambda).

    3. To use a Lambda authorizer, select a token or a request authorizer.
        Create the Lambda authorizer
        to have this choice displayed in the dropdown menu. For information
        on how to create a Lambda authorizer, see [Use API Gateway Lambda authorizers](apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.md).

    4. To use an Amazon Cognito user pool, choose an available user pool under **Cognito user pool**
       **authorizers**. Create a user pool in Amazon Cognito and an Amazon Cognito user pool authorizer in API Gateway to
        have this choice displayed in the dropdown menu. For information on how to create an Amazon Cognito user
        pool authorizer, see [Control access to REST APIs using Amazon Cognito user pools as an authorizer](apigateway-integrate-with-cognito.md).
04. To specify request validation, select a value from the **Request Validator**
     dropdown menu. To turn off request validation, select **None**. For more information
     about each option, see [Request validation for REST APIs in API Gateway](api-gateway-method-request-validation.md).

05. Select **API key required** to require an API key. When enabled, API keys are used in [usage plans](api-gateway-api-usage-plans.md) to throttle
     client traffic.

06. (Optional) To assign an operation name in a Java SDK of this API, generated by API Gateway, for **Operation name**,
     enter a name. For example, for the method request
     of `GET /pets/{petId}`, the corresponding Java SDK operation name
     is, by default , `GetPetsPetId`. This name is constructed from the
     method's HTTP verb ( `GET`) and the resource path variable names
     ( `Pets` and `PetId`). If you set the operation
     name as `getPetById`, the SDK operation name becomes
     `GetPetById`.

07. To add a query string parameter to the method, do the following:

    1. Choose **URL Query string**
       **parameters**, and then choose **Add query**
       **string**.

    2. For **Name**, enter the name of the query string
        parameter.

    3. Select **Required** if the newly created query string parameter is to be used for
        request validation.
        For more information about the request validation, see [Request validation for REST APIs in API Gateway](api-gateway-method-request-validation.md).

    4. Select **Caching** if the newly created query string parameter is to be used as part
        of a caching key. For more
        information about caching, see [Use method or integration parameters as cache keys to index cached responses](api-gateway-caching.md#enable-api-gateway-cache-keys).

To remove the query string parameter, choose **Remove**.

08. To add a header parameter to the method, do the following:

    1. Choose **HTTP request headers**, and then choose **Add header**.

    2. For **Name**, enter the name of the header.

    3. Select **Required** if the newly created header is to be used for
        request validation.
        For more information about the request validation, see [Request validation for REST APIs in API Gateway](api-gateway-method-request-validation.md).

    4. Select **Caching** if the newly created header is to be used as part
        of a caching key. For more
        information about caching, see [Use method or integration parameters as cache keys to index cached responses](api-gateway-caching.md#enable-api-gateway-cache-keys).

To remove the header, choose **Remove**.

09. To declare the payload format of a method request with the
     `POST`, `PUT`, or `PATCH` HTTP verb,
     choose **Request body**, and do the following:
    1. Choose **Add model**.

    2. For **Content-type**, enter a MIME-type (for example, `application/json`).

    3. For **Model**, select a model from the dropdown menu. The currently available
        models for the API include the default `Empty` and `Error` models as well as
        any models you have created and added to the [Models](../api/api-model.md) collection of the API. For more information about creating a model, see [Data models for REST APIs](models-mappings-models.md).

       ###### Note

       The model is useful to inform the client of the expected data
       format of a payload. It is helpful to generate a skeletal
       mapping template. It is important to generate a strongly typed
       SDK of the API in such languages as Java, C#, Objective-C, and
       Swift. It is only required if request validation is enabled
       against the payload.
10. Choose **Save**.

## Set up an API Gateway method response using the API Gateway console

An API method can have one or more responses. Each response is indexed by its
HTTP status code. By default, the API Gateway console adds `200` response to
the method responses. You can modify it, for example, to have the method return
`201` instead. You can add other responses, for example,
`409` for access denial and `500` for uninitialized stage
variables used.

To use the API Gateway console to modify, delete, or add a response to an API method,
follow these instructions.

1. In the **Resources** pane, choose your method, and then
    choose the **Method response** tab. You might need to choose the right arrow button to show the tab.

2. In the **Method response settings** section, choose **Create response**.

3. For **HTTP status code**, enter an HTTP status code such as `200`, `400`, or `500`.

    When a backend-returned response does not have a corresponding
    method response defined, API Gateway fails to return the response to the
    client. Instead, it returns a `500 Internal server error`
    error response.

4. Choose **Add header**.

5. For **Header name**, enter a name.

    To return a header from the backend to the client, add the header in the method response.

6. Choose **Add model** to define a format of the method response body.

Enter the media type of the response payload for **Content**
**type** and choose a model from the
    **Models** dropdown menu.

7. Choose **Save**.

To modify an existing response, navigate to your method response, and then choose
**Edit**. To change the **HTTP status code**, choose
**Delete** and create a new method response.

For every response returned from the backend, you must have a compatible response
configured as the method response. However, the configuring method response headers
and payload model are optional unless you map the result from the backend to the
method response before returning to the client. Also, a method response payload
model is important if you are generating a strongly typed SDK for your API.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Set up method response

Access control

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
