# Custom domain names for WebSocket APIs in API Gateway

_Custom domain names_ are simpler and more intuitive URLs that you can
provide to your API users.

After deploying your API, you (and your customers) can invoke the API
using the default base URL of the following format:

```nohighlight

https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/stage
```

where `api-id` is generated by API Gateway, `region` is the AWS Region,
and `stage` is specified by you when deploying the
API.

The hostname portion of the URL,
`api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com`
refers to an API endpoint. The default API endpoint name is randomly generated, difficult to recall, and not user-friendly.

With custom domain names, you can set up your API's hostname, and choose a base path (for
example, `myservice`) to map the alternative URL to your API. For example, a more
user-friendly API base URL can become:

```nohighlight

https://api.example.com/myservice
```

## Considerations

The following considerations might impact your use of a custom domain name.

- If you map a custom domain name to a WebSocket API, you can't map it to a REST API or an HTTP API.

- Only Regional custom domain names are supported.

- For the minimum TLS version, only TLS 1.2 is supported.

- You must create or update your DNS provider's resource record to map to your API endpoint. Without
such a mapping, API requests bound for the custom domain name cannot reach API Gateway.

- You can support an almost infinite number of domain names without exceeding the default quota by using a
wildcard certificate. For more information, see [Wildcard custom domain names](http-api-custom-domain-names.md#http-wildcard-custom-domain-names).

## Prerequisites

The following are prerequisites for a custom domain name.

### Register a domain name

You must have a registered internet domain name in order to set up custom domain names for your APIs. You
can register your internet domain name using [Amazon Route 53](../../../route53/latest/developerguide.md) or using a third-party
domain registrar of your choice. Your custom domain name can be the name of a subdomain or the root domain (also
known as the "zone apex") of a registered internet domain.

Your domain name must follow the [RFC\
1035](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1035) specification and can have a maximum of 63 octets per label and 255 octets in total.

### Certificates for custom domain names

Before setting up a custom domain name for an API, you must have an SSL/TLS certificate ready in ACM. If
ACM is not available in the AWS Region where you are creating your custom domain name, you must import a
certificate to API Gateway in that Region.

To import an SSL/TLS certificate, you must provide the PEM-formatted SSL/TLS certificate
body, its private key, and the certificate chain for the custom domain name.

Each
certificate stored in ACM is identified by its ARN. With certificates issued by ACM, you do
not have to worry about exposing any sensitive certificate details, such as the private
key. To use an AWS managed certificate
for a domain name, you simply reference its ARN.

If your application uses certificate pinning,
sometimes known as SSL pinning, to pin an ACM certificate, the application might not be able to connect to
your domain after AWS renews the certificate. For more information, see [Certificate pinning problems](../../../acm/latest/userguide/troubleshooting-pinning.md) in the
_AWS Certificate Manager User Guide_.

## Wildcard custom domain names

With wildcard custom domain names, you can support an almost infinite number of domain names without exceeding the [default quota](limits.md). For
example, you could give each of your customers their own domain name, `customername.api.example.com`.

To create a wildcard custom domain name, specify a wildcard
( `*`) as the first subdomain of a custom domain that represents all
possible subdomains of a root domain.

For example, the wildcard custom domain name `*.example.com` results in
subdomains such as `a.example.com`, `b.example.com`, and
`c.example.com`, which all route to the same domain.

Wildcard custom domain names support distinct configurations from API Gateway's standard
custom domain names. For example, in a single AWS account, you can configure
`*.example.com` and `a.example.com` to behave
differently.

You can use the `$context.domainName` and
`$context.domainPrefix` context variables to determine the domain name
that a client used to call your API. To learn more about context variables, see [Variables for data transformations for API Gateway](api-gateway-mapping-template-reference.md).

To create a wildcard custom domain name, you must provide a certificate issued by
ACM that has been validated using either the DNS or the email validation
method.

###### Note

You can't create a wildcard custom domain name if a different AWS account has
created a custom domain name that conflicts with the wildcard custom domain name.
For example, if account A has created `a.example.com`, then account B
can't create the wildcard custom domain name `*.example.com`.

If account A and account B share an owner, you can contact the [AWS Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home) to request an
exception.

## Next steps for custom domain names

To set up a custom domain name for an HTTP API, you use documentation from the REST API section of the API Gateway
Developer Guide.

First, specify a certificate for your custom domain name. For more information, see [Get certificates ready in AWS Certificate Manager](how-to-specify-certificate-for-custom-domain-name.md). Next, you create a Regional custom domain name.
For more information, see [Set up a Regional custom domain name in API Gateway](apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-create.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Security policy for WebSocket APIs in API Gateway

API mappings

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
