AWS Audit Manager will no longer be open to new customers starting
April 30, 2026. If you would like to use Audit Manager, sign up prior to that date. Existing customers
can continue to use the service as normal. For more information, see
[AWS Audit Manager availability change](audit-manager-availability-change.md).

# NIST SP 800-53 Rev 5

AWS Audit Manager provides a prebuilt framework that supports the NIST 800-53 Rev 5: Security and
Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations.

###### Note

- For information about the Audit Manager framework that supports NIST SP 800-171, see [NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2](nist-800-171-r2-1-1.md).

- For information about the Audit Manager framework that supports NIST CSF, see [NIST Cybersecurity Framework v1.1](nist-cybersecurity-framework-v1-1.md).

###### Topics

- [What is NIST SP 800-53?](#what-is-NIST800-53r5)

- [Using this framework](#framework-NIST800-53r5)

- [Next steps](#next-steps-NIST800-53r5)

- [Additional resources](#resources-NIST800-53r5)

## What is NIST SP 800-53?

The [National Institute of Standards and Technology\
(NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/) was founded in 1901 and is now part of the U.S. Department of Commerce.
NIST is one of the oldest physical science laboratories in the United States. The U.S.
Congress established the agency to improve what was at the time a second-rate measurement
infrastructure. The infrastructure was a major challenge to U.S. industrial
competitiveness, having lagged behind other economic powers such as the U.K. and
Germany.

The NIST SP 800-53 security controls are generally applicable to U.S. federal
information systems. These are typically systems that must go through a formal assessment
and authorization process. This process ensures sufficient protection of confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of information and information systems. This is based on the
security category and impact level of the system (low, moderate, or high) as well as a
risk determination. Security controls are selected from the NIST SP 800-53 security
control catalog, and the system is assessed against those security control requirements.

The NIST SP 800-53 framework represents the security controls and the associated
assessment procedures that are defined in NIST SP 800-53 Revision 5 Recommended Security
Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. For any discrepancies that are
noted in the content between this NIST SP 800-53 framework and the latest published NIST
Special Publication SP 800-53 Revision 5, refer to the official published documents that
are available at the [NIST Computer Security Resource\
Center](http://csrc.nist.gov/).

## Using this framework

You can use the NIST SP 800-53 framework to help you prepare for audits. This
framework includes a prebuilt collection of controls with descriptions and testing
procedures. These controls are grouped into control sets according to NIST requirements.
You can also customize this framework and its controls to support internal audits with
specific requirements.

Using the framework as a starting point, you can create an Audit Manager assessment and start
collecting evidence that’s relevant for your audit. After you create an assessment, Audit Manager
starts to assess your AWS resources. It does this based on the controls that are defined
in the NIST SP 800-53 framework. When it's time for an audit, you—or a
delegate of your choice—can review the evidence that Audit Manager collected. Either, you
can browse the evidence folders in your assessment and choose which evidence you want to
include in your assessment report. Or, if you enabled evidence finder, you can search for
specific evidence and export it in CSV format, or create an assessment report from your
search results. Either way, you can use this assessment report to show that your controls
are working as intended.

The framework details are as follows:

Framework name in AWS Audit ManagerNumber of automated controlsNumber of manual controlsNumber of control setsNIST 800-53 Rev 5: Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and
Organizations13287520

###### Important

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Security Hub CSPM, make sure
that you enabled all standards in Security Hub CSPM.

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Config, make sure
that you enable the necessary AWS Config rules. To review the AWS Config rules that are used
as data source mappings in this standard framework, download the [AuditManager\_ConfigDataSourceMappings\_NIST-800-53-Rev-5.zip](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/audit-manager/latest/userguide/samples/AuditManager_ConfigDataSourceMappings_NIST-800-53-Rev-5.zip) file.

The controls in this AWS Audit Manager framework aren't intended to verify if your systems are
compliant with the NIST standard. Moreover, they can't guarantee that you'll pass a NIST
audit. AWS Audit Manager doesn't automatically check procedural controls that require manual
evidence collection.

## Next steps

For instructions on how to view detailed information about this framework, including the
list of standard controls that it contains, see [Reviewing a framework in AWS Audit Manager](review-frameworks.md).

For instructions on how to create an assessment using this framework, see [Creating an assessment in AWS Audit Manager](create-assessments.md).

For instructions on how to customize this framework to support your specific
requirements, see [Making an editable copy of an existing framework in AWS Audit Manager](create-custom-frameworks-from-existing.md).

## Additional resources

- [National Institute of Standards and Technology\
(NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/)

- [NIST Computer Security Resource\
Center](http://csrc.nist.gov/)

- [AWS Compliance page for\
NIST](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/nist)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ISO/IEC 27001:2013

NIST CSF v1.1

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
