AWS Audit Manager will no longer be open to new customers starting
April 30, 2026. If you would like to use Audit Manager, sign up prior to that date. Existing customers
can continue to use the service as normal. For more information, see
[AWS Audit Manager availability change](audit-manager-availability-change.md).

# NIST SP 800-171 Rev 2

AWS Audit Manager provides a prebuilt standard framework that supports NIST 800-171 Revision 2:
Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and
Organizations.

###### Note

- For information about the Audit Manager framework that supports NIST SP 800-53, see [NIST SP 800-53 Rev 5](nist800-53r5.md).

- For information about the Audit Manager framework that supports NIST CSF, see [NIST Cybersecurity Framework v1.1](nist-cybersecurity-framework-v1-1.md).

###### Topics

- [What is NIST SP 800-171?](#what-is-NIST800-171)

- [Using this framework](#framework-NIST-800-171-r2-1.1)

- [Next steps](#next-steps-NIST-800-171-r2-1.1)

- [Additional resources](#resources-NIST-800-171-r2-1.1)

## What is NIST SP 800-171?

NIST SP 800-171 focuses on protecting the confidentiality of Controlled Unclassified
Information (CUI) in nonfederal systems and organizations. It recommends specific security
requirements to achieve that objective. NIST 800-171 is a publication that outlines the
required security standards and practices for nonfederal organizations that handle CUI on
their networks. It was first published in June 2015 by the [National Institute of Standards and Technology\
(NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/). NIST is a U.S. government agency that released several standards and
publications to strengthen cybersecurity resilience in the public and private sectors.
NIST SP 800-171 has received regular updates in line with emerging cyber threats and
changing technologies. The latest version (revision 2) was released in February 2020.

The cybersecurity controls within NIST SP 800-171 safeguard CUI in the IT networks of
government contractors and subcontractors. It defines the practices and procedures that
government contractors must adhere to when their networks process or store CUI. NIST SP
800-171 only applies to those parts of a contractor’s network where CUI is present.

## Using this framework

You can use the NIST SP 800-171 framework to help you prepare for audits. This
framework includes a prebuilt collection of controls with descriptions and testing
procedures. These controls are grouped into control sets according to NIST requirements.
You can also customize this framework and its controls to support internal audits with
specific requirements.

Using the framework as a starting point, you can create an Audit Manager assessment and start
collecting evidence that’s relevant for your audit. After you create an assessment, Audit Manager
starts to assess your AWS resources. It does this based on the controls that are defined
in the NIST SP 800-171 framework. When it's time for an audit, you—or a
delegate of your choice—can review the evidence that Audit Manager collected. Either, you
can browse the evidence folders in your assessment and choose which evidence you want to
include in your assessment report. Or, if you enabled evidence finder, you can search for
specific evidence and export it in CSV format, or create an assessment report from your
search results. Either way, you can use this assessment report to show that your controls
are working as intended.

The framework details are as follows:

Framework name in AWS Audit ManagerNumber of automated controlsNumber of manual controlsNumber of control setsNIST 800-171 Revision 2: Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in
Nonfederal Systems and Organizations357514

###### Important

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Security Hub CSPM, make sure
that you enabled all standards in Security Hub CSPM.

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Config, make sure
that you enable the necessary AWS Config rules. To review the AWS Config rules that are used
as data source mappings in this standard framework, download the [AuditManager\_ConfigDataSourceMappings\_NIST-800-171-Rev-2.zip](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/audit-manager/latest/userguide/samples/AuditManager_ConfigDataSourceMappings_NIST-800-171-Rev-2.zip) file.

The controls in this AWS Audit Manager framework aren't intended to verify if your systems are
compliant with NIST 800-171. Moreover, they can't guarantee that you'll pass a NIST audit.
AWS Audit Manager doesn't automatically check procedural controls that require manual evidence
collection.

## Next steps

For instructions on how to view detailed information about this framework, including the
list of standard controls that it contains, see [Reviewing a framework in AWS Audit Manager](review-frameworks.md).

For instructions on how to create an assessment using this framework, see [Creating an assessment in AWS Audit Manager](create-assessments.md).

For instructions on how to customize this framework to support your specific
requirements, see [Making an editable copy of an existing framework in AWS Audit Manager](create-custom-frameworks-from-existing.md).

## Additional resources

- [National Institute of Standards and Technology\
(NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/)

- [NIST Computer Security Resource\
Center](http://csrc.nist.gov/)

- [AWS Compliance page for\
NIST](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/nist)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

NIST CSF v1.1

PCI DSS v3.2.1

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
