This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::AppSync::SourceApiAssociation

Describes the configuration of a source API. A source API is a GraphQL API that is
linked to a merged API. There can be multiple source APIs attached to each merged API.
When linked to a merged API, the source API's schema, data sources, and resolvers will
be combined with other linked source API data to form a new, singular API. Source APIs
can originate from your account or from other accounts via Resource Access Manager.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::AppSync::SourceApiAssociation",
  "Properties" : {
      "Description" : String,
      "MergedApiIdentifier" : String,
      "SourceApiAssociationConfig" : SourceApiAssociationConfig,
      "SourceApiIdentifier" : String
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::AppSync::SourceApiAssociation
Properties:
  Description: String
  MergedApiIdentifier: String
  SourceApiAssociationConfig:
    SourceApiAssociationConfig
  SourceApiIdentifier: String

```

## Properties

`Description`

The description field of the association configuration.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`MergedApiIdentifier`

The identifier of the AppSync Merged API. This is generated by the AppSync service. In
most cases, Merged APIs (especially in your account) only require the API ID value or
ARN of the merged API. However, Merged APIs from other accounts (cross-account use
cases) strictly require the full resource ARN of the merged API.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`SourceApiAssociationConfig`

The `SourceApiAssociationConfig` object data.

_Required_: No

_Type_: [SourceApiAssociationConfig](aws-properties-appsync-sourceapiassociation-sourceapiassociationconfig.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SourceApiIdentifier`

The identifier of the AppSync Source API. This is generated by the AppSync service. In
most cases, source APIs (especially in your account) only require the API ID value or
ARN of the source API. However, source APIs from other accounts (cross-account use
cases) strictly require the full resource ARN of the source API.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of an `AWS::AppSync::SourceApiAssociation`
resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, the function returns the ARN of the
source API association.

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [Ref](../userguide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

`Fn::GetAtt` returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The
following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using `Fn::GetAtt`, see [Fn::GetAtt](../userguide/intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`AssociationArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the source API association.

`AssociationId`

The ID generated by the AppSync service for the source API association.

`LastSuccessfulMergeDate`

The datetime value of the last successful merge of the source API association. The
result will be in UTC format and your local time zone.

`MergedApiArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the merged API.

`MergedApiId`

The ID of the merged API.

`SourceApiArn`

The source API's Amazon Resource Name (ARN) value.

`SourceApiAssociationStatus`

The state of the source API association.

The following values are valid:

`MERGE_SCHEDULED | MERGE_FAILED | MERGE_SUCCESS | MERGE_IN_PROGRESS |
                AUTO_MERGE_SCHEDULE_FAILED | DELETION_SCHEDULED | DELETION_IN_PROGRESS |
                DELETION_FAILED`

`SourceApiAssociationStatusDetail`

The message describing the state of the source API association.

`SourceApiId`

The ID of the source API.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

SyncConfig

SourceApiAssociationConfig

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
