This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::IoT::Certificate

Use the `AWS::IoT::Certificate` resource to declare an AWS IoT
X.509 certificate. For information about working with X.509 certificates, see [X.509 Client\
Certificates](../../../iot/latest/developerguide/x509-client-certs.md) in the _AWS IoT Developer Guide_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::IoT::Certificate",
  "Properties" : {
      "CACertificatePem" : String,
      "CertificateMode" : String,
      "CertificatePem" : String,
      "CertificateSigningRequest" : String,
      "Status" : String
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::IoT::Certificate
Properties:
  CACertificatePem: String
  CertificateMode: String
  CertificatePem: String
  CertificateSigningRequest: String
  Status: String

```

## Properties

`CACertificatePem`

The CA certificate used to sign the device certificate being registered, not
available when CertificateMode is SNI\_ONLY.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `65536`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`CertificateMode`

Specifies which mode of certificate registration to use with this resource. Valid
options are DEFAULT with CaCertificatePem and CertificatePem, SNI\_ONLY with CertificatePem,
and Default with CertificateSigningRequest.

`DEFAULT`: A certificate in `DEFAULT` mode is either generated by
AWS IoT Core or registered with an issuer certificate authority (CA).
Devices with certificates in `DEFAULT` mode aren't required to send the Server
Name Indication (SNI) extension when connecting to AWS IoT Core. However, to
use features such as custom domains and VPC endpoints, we recommend that you use the SNI
extension when connecting to AWS IoT Core.

`SNI_ONLY`: A certificate in `SNI_ONLY` mode is registered without an
issuer CA. Devices with certificates in `SNI_ONLY` mode must send the SNI
extension when connecting to AWS IoT Core.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `DEFAULT | SNI_ONLY`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`CertificatePem`

The certificate data in PEM format. Requires SNI\_ONLY for the certificate mode or the
accompanying CACertificatePem for registration.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `65536`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`CertificateSigningRequest`

The certificate signing request (CSR).

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[\s\S]*`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `4096`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`Status`

The status of the certificate.

Valid values are ACTIVE, INACTIVE, REVOKED, PENDING\_TRANSFER, and
PENDING\_ACTIVATION.

The status value REGISTER\_INACTIVE is deprecated and should not be used.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `ACTIVE | INACTIVE | REVOKED | PENDING_TRANSFER | PENDING_ACTIVATION`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns the certificate ID. For example:

`{ "Ref": "MyCertificate" }`

A value similar to the following is returned:

`a1234567b89c012d3e4fg567hij8k9l01mno1p23q45678901rs234567890t1u2`

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

The `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using the `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function, see [`Fn::GetAtt`](intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`Arn`

Returns the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for the certificate. For example:

`{ "Fn::GetAtt": ["MyCertificate", "Arn"] }`

A value similar to the following is returned:

`arn:aws:iot:ap-southeast-2:123456789012:cert/a1234567b89c012d3e4fg567hij8k9l01mno1p23q45678901rs234567890t1u2`

`Id`

The certificate ID.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Tag

AWS::IoT::CertificateProvider

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
