This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::DataSync::LocationAzureBlob CmkSecretConfig

Specifies configuration information for a DataSync-managed secret, such as an
authentication token, secret key, password, or Kerberos keytab that DataSync uses
to access a specific storage location, with a customer-managed AWS KMS key.

###### Note

You can use either `CmkSecretConfig` or `CustomSecretConfig` to
provide credentials for a `CreateLocation` request. Do not provide both
parameters for the same request.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "KmsKeyArn" : String,
  "SecretArn" : String
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

  KmsKeyArn: String
  SecretArn: String

```

## Properties

`KmsKeyArn`

Specifies the ARN for the customer-managed AWS KMS key that DataSync uses to encrypt the DataSync-managed secret stored for
`SecretArn`. DataSync provides this key to AWS Secrets Manager.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^(arn:(aws|aws-cn|aws-us-gov|aws-eusc|aws-iso|aws-iso-b):kms:[a-z-0-9]+:[0-9]{12}:key/.*|)$`

_Maximum_: `2048`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SecretArn`

Specifies the ARN for the DataSync-managed AWS Secrets Manager secret that
that is used to access a specific storage location. This property is generated by DataSync and is read-only. DataSync encrypts this secret with the KMS key that you specify for `KmsKeyArn`.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^(arn:(aws|aws-cn|aws-us-gov|aws-eusc|aws-iso|aws-iso-b):secretsmanager:[a-z-0-9]+:[0-9]{12}:secret:.*|)$`

_Maximum_: `2048`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

AzureBlobSasConfiguration

CustomSecretConfig

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
