This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::Bedrock::AutomatedReasoningPolicy

Creates an Automated Reasoning policy for Amazon Bedrock Guardrails. Automated
Reasoning policies use mathematical techniques to detect hallucinations, suggest
corrections, and highlight unstated assumptions in the responses of your GenAI
application.

To create a policy, you upload a source document that describes the rules that you're
encoding. Automated Reasoning extracts important concepts from the source document that
will become variables in the policy and infers policy rules.

To learn more about creating Automated Reasoning policies, see [Minimize AI hallucinations and deliver up to 99% verification accuracy with\
Automated Reasoning checks: Now available](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/minimize-ai-hallucinations-and-deliver-up-to-99-verification-accuracy-with-automated-reasoning-checks-now-available) in the _AWS News Blog_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::Bedrock::AutomatedReasoningPolicy",
  "Properties" : {
      "Description" : String,
      "ForceDelete" : Boolean,
      "KmsKeyId" : String,
      "Name" : String,
      "PolicyDefinition" : PolicyDefinition,
      "Tags" : [ Tag, ... ]
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::Bedrock::AutomatedReasoningPolicy
Properties:
  Description: String
  ForceDelete: Boolean
  KmsKeyId: String
  Name: String
  PolicyDefinition:
    PolicyDefinition
  Tags:
    - Tag

```

## Properties

`Description`

The description of the policy.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^[\s\S]+$`

_Maximum_: `1024`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`ForceDelete`

Property description not available.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Boolean

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`KmsKeyId`

Property description not available.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^(arn:aws(-[^:]+)?:kms:[a-zA-Z0-9-]*:[0-9]{12}:((key/[a-zA-Z0-9-]{36})|(alias/[a-zA-Z0-9-_/]+)))|([a-zA-Z0-9-]{36})|(alias/[a-zA-Z0-9-_/]+)$`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `2048`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`Name`

The name of the policy.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^[0-9a-zA-Z-_ ]+$`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `256`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`PolicyDefinition`

The complete policy definition generated by the build workflow, containing all rules, variables, and custom types extracted from the source documents.

_Required_: No

_Type_: [PolicyDefinition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-bedrock-automatedreasoningpolicy-policydefinition.html)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Tags`

The tags associated with the Automated Reasoning policy.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Tag](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-bedrock-automatedreasoningpolicy-tag.html)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

Returns the policy ID.

### Fn::GetAtt

Returns the value of an attribute from a resource in the template.

`CreatedAt`

The timestamp when the policy was created.

`DefinitionHash`

A hash of the policy definition used to identify the version.

`KmsKeyArn`

Property description not available.

`PolicyArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the policy.

`PolicyId`

The unique identifier of the policy.

`UpdatedAt`

The timestamp when the policy was last updated.

`Version`

The version of the policy.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Tag

PolicyDefinition
