This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::NeptuneGraph::PrivateGraphEndpoint

Create a private graph endpoint to allow private access from to the graph from within
a VPC. You can attach security groups to the private graph endpoint.

###### Note

VPC endpoint charges apply.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::NeptuneGraph::PrivateGraphEndpoint",
  "Properties" : {
      "GraphIdentifier" : String,
      "SecurityGroupIds" : [ String, ... ],
      "SubnetIds" : [ String, ... ],
      "VpcId" : String
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::NeptuneGraph::PrivateGraphEndpoint
Properties:
  GraphIdentifier: String
  SecurityGroupIds:
    - String
  SubnetIds:
    - String
  VpcId: String

```

## Properties

`GraphIdentifier`

The unique identifier of the Neptune Analytics graph.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`SecurityGroupIds`

Security groups to be attached to the private graph endpoint..

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`SubnetIds`

Subnets in which private graph endpoint ENIs are created.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`VpcId`

The VPC in which the private graph endpoint needs to be created.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns the PrivateGraphEndpointIdentifier.

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

The `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using the `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function, see [`Fn::GetAtt`](intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`PrivateGraphEndpointIdentifier`

PrivateGraphEndpoint resource identifier generated by concatenating the associated GraphIdentifier and VpcId with an
underscore separator. For example, if GraphIdentifier is `g-12a3bcdef4` and VpcId is
`vpc-111122223333aabbc`, the generated PrivateGraphEndpointIdentifier will be
`g-12a3bcdef4_vpc-111122223333aabbc`.

`VpcEndpointId`

VPC endpoint that provides a private connection between the Graph and specified VPC. For example:
`vpce-aabbaabbaabbaabba`.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

VectorSearchConfiguration

Next

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
