This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::IAM::SAMLProvider

Creates an IAM resource that describes an identity provider (IdP) that supports SAML
2.0.

The SAML provider resource that you create with this operation can be used as a
principal in an IAM role's trust policy. Such a policy can enable federated users who
sign in using the SAML IdP to assume the role. You can create an IAM role that
supports Web-based single sign-on (SSO) to the AWS Management Console or one that supports API access
to AWS.

When you create the SAML provider resource, you upload a SAML metadata document that
you get from your IdP. That document includes the issuer's name, expiration information,
and keys that can be used to validate the SAML authentication response (assertions) that
the IdP sends. You must generate the metadata document using the identity management
software that is used as your organization's IdP.

###### Note

This operation requires [Signature Version 4](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/signature-version-4.html).

For more information, see [Enabling SAML 2.0\
federated users to access the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_enable-console-saml.html) and [About SAML 2.0-based\
federation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_saml.html) in the _IAM User Guide_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::IAM::SAMLProvider",
  "Properties" : {
      "AddPrivateKey" : String,
      "AssertionEncryptionMode" : String,
      "Name" : String,
      "PrivateKeyList" : [ SAMLPrivateKey, ... ],
      "RemovePrivateKey" : String,
      "SamlMetadataDocument" : String,
      "Tags" : [ Tag, ... ]
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::IAM::SAMLProvider
Properties:
  AddPrivateKey: String
  AssertionEncryptionMode: String
  Name: String
  PrivateKeyList:
    - SAMLPrivateKey
  RemovePrivateKey: String
  SamlMetadataDocument: String
  Tags:
    - Tag

```

## Properties

`AddPrivateKey`

Specifies the new private key from your external identity provider. The private key
must be a .pem file that uses AES-GCM or AES-CBC encryption algorithm to decrypt SAML
assertions.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[\u0009\u000A\u000D\u0020-\u00FF]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `16384`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`AssertionEncryptionMode`

Specifies the encryption setting for the SAML provider.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `Allowed | Required`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Name`

The name of the provider to create.

This parameter allows (through its [regex pattern](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/regex)) a string of characters consisting of upper and lowercase alphanumeric
characters with no spaces. You can also include any of the following characters: \_+=,.@-

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[\w._-]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `128`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`PrivateKeyList`

The private key metadata for the SAML provider.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [SAMLPrivateKey](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-iam-samlprovider-samlprivatekey.html)

_Maximum_: `2`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`RemovePrivateKey`

The Key ID of the private key to remove.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[A-Z0-9]+`

_Minimum_: `22`

_Maximum_: `64`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`SamlMetadataDocument`

An XML document generated by an identity provider (IdP) that supports SAML 2.0. The
document includes the issuer's name, expiration information, and keys that can be used
to validate the SAML authentication response (assertions) that are received from the
IdP. You must generate the metadata document using the identity management software that
is used as your organization's IdP.

For more information, see [About SAML 2.0-based\
federation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_saml.html) in the _IAM User Guide_

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Minimum_: `1000`

_Maximum_: `10000000`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Tags`

A list of tags that you want to attach to the new IAM SAML provider.
Each tag consists of a key name and an associated value. For more information about tagging, see [Tagging IAM resources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_tags.html) in the
_IAM User Guide_.

###### Note

If any one of the tags is invalid or if you exceed the allowed maximum number of tags, then the entire request
fails and the resource is not created.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Tag](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-iam-samlprovider-tag.html)

_Maximum_: `50`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns the ARN.

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

The `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using the `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function, see [`Fn::GetAtt`](intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`Arn`

Returns the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for the specified
`AWS::IAM::SAMLProvider` resource.

`SamlProviderUUID`

The unique identifier assigned to the SAML provider.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

AWS::IAM::RolePolicy

SAMLPrivateKey
