This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::Events::Rule

Creates or updates the specified rule. Rules are enabled by default, or based on value of
the state. You can disable a rule using [DisableRule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/APIReference/API_DisableRule.html).

A single rule watches for events from a single event bus. Events generated by AWS services
go to your account's default event bus. Events generated by SaaS partner services or
applications go to the matching partner event bus. If you have custom applications or
services, you can specify whether their events go to your default event bus or a custom event
bus that you have created. For more information, see [CreateEventBus](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/APIReference/API_CreateEventBus.html).

If you are updating an existing rule, the rule is replaced with what you specify in this
`PutRule` command. If you omit arguments in `PutRule`, the old values
for those arguments are not kept. Instead, they are replaced with null values.

When you create or update a rule, incoming events might not immediately start matching to
new or updated rules. Allow a short period of time for changes to take effect.

A rule must contain at least an EventPattern or ScheduleExpression. Rules with
EventPatterns are triggered when a matching event is observed. Rules with ScheduleExpressions
self-trigger based on the given schedule. A rule can have both an EventPattern and a
ScheduleExpression, in which case the rule triggers on matching events as well as on a
schedule.

Most services in AWS treat : or / as the same character in Amazon Resource Names (ARNs).
However, EventBridge uses an exact match in event patterns and rules. Be sure to use the
correct ARN characters when creating event patterns so that they match the ARN syntax in the
event you want to match.

In EventBridge, it is possible to create rules that lead to infinite loops, where a rule
is fired repeatedly. For example, a rule might detect that ACLs have changed on an S3 bucket,
and trigger software to change them to the desired state. If the rule is not written
carefully, the subsequent change to the ACLs fires the rule again, creating an infinite
loop.

To prevent this, write the rules so that the triggered actions do not re-fire the same
rule. For example, your rule could fire only if ACLs are found to be in a bad state, instead
of after any change.

An infinite loop can quickly cause higher than expected charges. We recommend that you use
budgeting, which alerts you when charges exceed your specified limit. For more information,
see [Managing Your Costs with\
Budgets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/budgets-managing-costs.html).

###### Note

As an aid to help you jumpstart developing CloudFormation templates, the EventBridge console
enables you to create templates from the existing rules in your account. For more information, see
[Generating\
CloudFormation templates from an EventBridge rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/rule-generate-template.html)
in the _Amazon EventBridge User_
_Guide_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::Events::Rule",
  "Properties" : {
      "Description" : String,
      "EventBusName" : String,
      "EventPattern" : Json,
      "Name" : String,
      "RoleArn" : String,
      "ScheduleExpression" : String,
      "State" : String,
      "Tags" : [ Tag, ... ],
      "Targets" : [ Target, ... ]
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::Events::Rule
Properties:
  Description: String
  EventBusName: String
  EventPattern: Json
  Name: String
  RoleArn: String
  ScheduleExpression: String
  State: String
  Tags:
    - Tag
  Targets:
    - Target

```

## Properties

`Description`

The description of the rule.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Maximum_: `512`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`EventBusName`

The name or ARN of the event bus associated with the rule. If you omit this, the default
event bus is used.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[/\.\-_A-Za-z0-9]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `256`

_Update requires_: [Some interruptions](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-some-interrupt)

`EventPattern`

The event pattern of the rule. For more information, see [Events and Event\
Patterns](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eventbridge-and-event-patterns.html) in the _Amazon EventBridge User Guide_.

_Required_: Conditional

_Type_: Json

_Maximum_: `4096`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Name`

The name of the rule.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[\.\-_A-Za-z0-9]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `64`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`RoleArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the role that is used for target invocation.

If you're setting an event bus in another account as the target and that account granted
permission to your account through an organization instead of directly by the account ID, you
must specify a `RoleArn` with proper permissions in the `Target`
structure, instead of here in this parameter.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `1600`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`ScheduleExpression`

The scheduling expression. For example, "cron(0 20 \* \* ? \*)", "rate(5 minutes)". For more
information, see [Creating an Amazon EventBridge rule\
that runs on a schedule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-create-rule-schedule.html).

_Required_: Conditional

_Type_: String

_Maximum_: `256`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`State`

The state of the rule.

Valid values include:

- `DISABLED`: The rule is disabled. EventBridge does not match any events against the rule.

- `ENABLED`: The rule is enabled.
EventBridge matches events against the rule, _except_ for AWS management events delivered through CloudTrail.

- `ENABLED_WITH_ALL_CLOUDTRAIL_MANAGEMENT_EVENTS`: The rule is enabled for all
events, including AWS management events delivered through CloudTrail.

Management events provide visibility into management operations that are performed on
resources in your AWS account. These are also known as control plane
operations. For more information, see [Logging management events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-management-events-with-cloudtrail.html#logging-management-events) in the _CloudTrail User_
_Guide_, and [Filtering management events from AWS services](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-service-event.html#eb-service-event-cloudtrail) in the
_Amazon EventBridge User Guide_.

This value is only valid for rules on the [default](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-what-is-how-it-works-concepts.html#eb-bus-concepts-buses) event bus
or [custom event buses](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-create-event-bus.html).
It does not apply to [partner event buses](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-saas.html).

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `DISABLED | ENABLED | ENABLED_WITH_ALL_CLOUDTRAIL_MANAGEMENT_EVENTS`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Tags`

Property description not available.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Tag](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-events-rule-tag.html)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Targets`

Adds the specified targets to the specified rule, or updates the targets if they are
already associated with the rule.

Targets are the resources that are invoked when a rule is triggered.

The maximum number of entries per request is 10.

###### Note

Each rule can have up to five (5) targets associated with it at one time.

For a list of services you can configure as targets for events, see [EventBridge targets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-targets.html)
in the _Amazon EventBridge User Guide_.

Creating rules with built-in targets is supported only in the AWS Management Console. The
built-in targets are:

- `Amazon EBS CreateSnapshot API call`

- `Amazon EC2 RebootInstances API call`

- `Amazon EC2 StopInstances API call`

- `Amazon EC2 TerminateInstances API call`

For some target types, `PutTargets` provides target-specific parameters. If the
target is a Kinesis data stream, you can optionally specify which shard the event
goes to by using the `KinesisParameters` argument. To invoke a command on multiple
EC2 instances with one rule, you can use the `RunCommandParameters` field.

To be able to make API calls against the resources that you own, Amazon EventBridge
needs the appropriate permissions:

- For AWS Lambda and Amazon SNS resources, EventBridge relies
on resource-based policies.

- For EC2 instances, Kinesis Data Streams, AWS Step Functions state machines and
API Gateway APIs, EventBridge relies on IAM roles that you specify in the
`RoleARN` argument in `PutTargets`.

For more information, see [Authentication\
and Access Control](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/auth-and-access-control-eventbridge.html) in the _Amazon EventBridge User Guide_.

If another AWS account is in the same region and has granted you permission
(using `PutPermission`), you can send events to that account. Set that account's
event bus as a target of the rules in your account. To send the matched events to the other
account, specify that account's event bus as the `Arn` value when you run
`PutTargets`. If your account sends events to another account, your account is
charged for each sent event. Each event sent to another account is charged as a custom event.
The account receiving the event is not charged. For more information, see [Amazon EventBridge Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/pricing).

###### Note

`Input`, `InputPath`, and `InputTransformer` are not
available with `PutTarget` if the target is an event bus of a different AWS account.

If you are setting the event bus of another account as the target, and that account
granted permission to your account through an organization instead of directly by the account
ID, then you must specify a `RoleArn` with proper permissions in the
`Target` structure. For more information, see [Sending and\
Receiving Events Between AWS Accounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eventbridge-cross-account-event-delivery.html) in the _Amazon EventBridge User Guide_.

###### Note

If you have an IAM role on a cross-account event bus target, a `PutTargets`
call without a role on the same target (same `Id` and `Arn`) will not
remove the role.

For more information about enabling cross-account events, see [PutPermission](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/APIReference/API_PutPermission.html).

**Input**, **InputPath**, and
**InputTransformer** are mutually exclusive and optional
parameters of a target. When a rule is triggered due to a matched event:

- If none of the following arguments are specified for a target, then the entire event
is passed to the target in JSON format (unless the target is Amazon EC2 Run Command or
Amazon ECS task, in which case nothing from the event is passed to the target).

- If **Input** is specified in the form of valid JSON, then
the matched event is overridden with this constant.

- If **InputPath** is specified in the form of JSONPath
(for example, `$.detail`), then only the part of the event specified in the
path is passed to the target (for example, only the detail part of the event is
passed).

- If **InputTransformer** is specified, then one or more
specified JSONPaths are extracted from the event and used as values in a template that you
specify as the input to the target.

When you specify `InputPath` or `InputTransformer`, you must use
JSON dot notation, not bracket notation.

When you add targets to a rule and the associated rule triggers soon after, new or updated
targets might not be immediately invoked. Allow a short period of time for changes to take
effect.

This action can partially fail if too many requests are made at the same time. If that
happens, `FailedEntryCount` is non-zero in the response and each entry in
`FailedEntries` provides the ID of the failed target and the error code.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Target](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/TemplateReference/aws-properties-events-rule-target.html)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns event rule ID, such as
`mystack-ScheduledRule-ABCDEFGHIJK`.

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

`Arn`

The ARN of the rule, such as
`arn:aws:events:us-east-2:123456789012:rule/example`.

## Examples

- [Create a cross-Region rule](#aws-resource-events-rule--examples--Create_a_cross-Region_rule)

- [Create a rule that includes a dead-letter queue for a target](#aws-resource-events-rule--examples--Create_a_rule_that_includes_a_dead-letter_queue_for_a_target)

- [Regularly invoke Lambda function](#aws-resource-events-rule--examples--Regularly_invoke_Lambda_function)

- [Invoke Lambda Function in Response to an Event](#aws-resource-events-rule--examples--Invoke_Lambda_Function_in_Response_to_an_Event)

- [Notify a Topic in Response to a Log Entry](#aws-resource-events-rule--examples--Notify_a_Topic_in_Response_to_a_Log_Entry)

### Create a cross-Region rule

The following example demonstrates how to create a rule that routes events across Regions.

#### JSON

```json

{
   "Resources": {
      "EventRuleRegion1": {
         "Type": "AWS::Events::Rule",
         "Properties": {
            "Description": "Routes to us-east-1 event bus",
            "EventBusName": "MyBusName",
            "State": "ENABLED",
            "EventPattern": {
               "source": [
                   "MyTestApp"
               ],
               "detail": [
                   "MyTestAppDetail"
               ]
            },
            "Targets": [
               {
                   "Arn": "arn:aws:events:us-east-1:123456789012:event-bus/CrossRegionDestinationBus",
                   "Id": " CrossRegionDestinationBus",
                   "RoleArn": {
                      "Fn::GetAtt": [
                         "EventBridgeIAMrole",
                         "Arn"
                      ]
                   }
               }
           ]
      }
   },
   "EventBridgeIAMrole": {
      "Type": "AWS::IAM::Role",
      "Properties": {
         "AssumeRolePolicyDocument": {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
               {
                  "Effect": "Allow",
                  "Principal": {
                     "Service": {
                        "Fn::Sub": "events.amazonaws.com"
                     }
                  },
                  "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
               }
            ]
      },
      "Path": "/",
      "Policies": [
         {
            "PolicyName": "PutEventsDestinationBus",
            "PolicyDocument": {
               "Version": "2012-10-17",
               "Statement": [
                  {
                     "Effect": "Allow",
                     "Action": [
                        "events:PutEvents"
                     ],
                     "Resource": [
                        "arn:aws:events:us-east-1:123456789012:event-bus/CrossRegionDestinationBus"
                     ]
                  }
               ]
            }
         }
      ]
   }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

Resources:
  EventRuleRegion1:
    Type: 'AWS::Events::Rule'
    Properties:
      Description: Routes to us-east-1 event bus
      EventBusName: MyBusName
      State: ENABLED
      EventPattern:
        source:
          - MyTestApp
        detail:
          - MyTestAppDetail
      Targets:
        - Arn: >-
            arn:aws:events:us-east-1:123456789012:event-bus/CrossRegionDestinationBus
          Id: ' CrossRegionDestinationBus'
          RoleArn: !GetAtt
            - EventBridgeIAMrole
            - Arn
  EventBridgeIAMrole:
    Type: 'AWS::IAM::Role'
    Properties:
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Version: 2012-10-17
        Statement:
          - Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service: !Sub events.amazonaws.com
            Action: 'sts:AssumeRole'
      Path: /
      Policies:
        - PolicyName: PutEventsDestinationBus
          PolicyDocument:
            Version: 2012-10-17
            Statement:
              - Effect: Allow
                Action:
                  - 'events:PutEvents'
                Resource:
                  - >-
                    arn:aws:events:us-east-1:123456789012:event-bus/CrossRegionDestinationBus
```

### Create a rule that includes a dead-letter queue for a target

The following example demonstrates how to send all EC2 events to an SQS queue, and
include a dead-letter queue and retry policy settings for the target of the rule.

#### JSON

```json

{
   "MyNewEventsRule": {
      "Type": "AWS::Events::Rule",
      "Properties": {
         "Description": "Test Events Rule",
         "Name": "mynewabc",
         "EventPattern": {
            "source": [
               "aws.ec2"
            ]
         },
         "State": "ENABLED",
         "Targets": [
            {
               "Arn": "arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:081035103721:demoSQS",
               "Id": "Id1234",
               "RetryPolicy": {
                  "MaximumRetryAttempts": 4,
                  "MaximumEventAgeInSeconds": 400
               },
               "DeadLetterConfig": {
                  "Arn": "arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:081035103721:demoDLQ"
               }
            }
         ]
      }
   }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

MyNewEventsRule:
  Type: 'AWS::Events::Rule'
  Properties:
    Description: Test Events Rule
    Name: mynewabc
    EventPattern:
      source:
        - aws.ec2
    State: ENABLED
    Targets:
      - Arn: 'arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:081035103721:demoSQS'
        Id: Id1234
        RetryPolicy:
          MaximumRetryAttempts: 4
          MaximumEventAgeInSeconds: 400
        DeadLetterConfig:
          Arn: 'arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:081035103721:demoDLQ'
```

### Regularly invoke Lambda function

The following example creates a rule that invokes the specified Lambda function every
10 minutes. The `PermissionForEventsToInvokeLambda` resource grants EventBridge
permission to invoke the associated function.

#### JSON

```json

"ScheduledRule": {
  "Type": "AWS::Events::Rule",
  "Properties": {
    "Description": "ScheduledRule",
    "ScheduleExpression": "rate(10 minutes)",
    "State": "ENABLED",
    "Targets": [{
      "Arn": { "Fn::GetAtt": ["LambdaFunction", "Arn"] },
      "Id": "TargetFunctionV1"
    }]
  }
},
"PermissionForEventsToInvokeLambda": {
  "Type": "AWS::Lambda::Permission",
  "Properties": {
    "FunctionName": { "Ref": "LambdaFunction" },
    "Action": "lambda:InvokeFunction",
    "Principal": "events.amazonaws.com",
    "SourceArn": { "Fn::GetAtt": ["ScheduledRule", "Arn"] }
  }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

ScheduledRule:
  Type: AWS::Events::Rule
  Properties:
    Description: "ScheduledRule"
    ScheduleExpression: "rate(10 minutes)"
    State: "ENABLED"
    Targets:
      -
        Arn:
          Fn::GetAtt:
            - "LambdaFunction"
            - "Arn"
        Id: "TargetFunctionV1"
PermissionForEventsToInvokeLambda:
  Type: AWS::Lambda::Permission
  Properties:
    FunctionName: !Ref "LambdaFunction"
    Action: "lambda:InvokeFunction"
    Principal: "events.amazonaws.com"
    SourceArn:
      Fn::GetAtt:
        - "ScheduledRule"
        - "Arn"
```

### Invoke Lambda Function in Response to an Event

The following example creates a rule that invokes the specified Lambda function when
any EC2 instance's state changes to stopping.

#### JSON

```json

"EventRule": {
  "Type": "AWS::Events::Rule",
  "Properties": {
    "Description": "EventRule",
    "EventPattern": {
      "source": [
        "aws.ec2"
      ],
      "detail-type": [
        "EC2 Instance State-change Notification"
      ],
      "detail": {
        "state": [
          "stopping"
        ]
      }
    },
    "State": "ENABLED",
    "Targets": [{
      "Arn": { "Fn::GetAtt": ["LambdaFunction", "Arn"] },
      "Id": "TargetFunctionV1"
    }]
  }
},
"PermissionForEventsToInvokeLambda": {
  "Type": "AWS::Lambda::Permission",
  "Properties": {
    "FunctionName": { "Ref": "LambdaFunction" },
    "Action": "lambda:InvokeFunction",
    "Principal": "events.amazonaws.com",
    "SourceArn": { "Fn::GetAtt": ["EventRule", "Arn"] }
  }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

EventRule:
  Type: AWS::Events::Rule
  Properties:
    Description: "EventRule"
    EventPattern:
      source:
        - "aws.ec2"
      detail-type:
        - "EC2 Instance State-change Notification"
      detail:
        state:
          - "stopping"
    State: "ENABLED"
    Targets:
      -
        Arn:
          Fn::GetAtt:
            - "LambdaFunction"
            - "Arn"
        Id: "TargetFunctionV1"
PermissionForEventsToInvokeLambda:
  Type: AWS::Lambda::Permission
  Properties:
    FunctionName:
      Ref: "LambdaFunction"
    Action: "lambda:InvokeFunction"
    Principal: "events.amazonaws.com"
    SourceArn:
      Fn::GetAtt:
        - "EventRule"
        - "Arn"
```

### Notify a Topic in Response to a Log Entry

The following example creates a rule that notifies an Amazon Simple Notification Service
topic if an AWS CloudTrail log entry contains a call by the root user. The
`EventTopicPolicy ` resource grants Amazon EventBridge permission to notify
the associated Amazon SNS topic.

#### JSON

```json

"OpsEventRule": {
  "Type": "AWS::Events::Rule",
  "Properties": {
    "Description": "EventRule",
    "EventPattern": {
      "detail-type": [ "AWS API Call via CloudTrail" ],
      "detail": {
        "userIdentity": {
          "type": [ "Root" ]
        }
      }
    },
    "State": "ENABLED",
    "Targets": [
      {
        "Arn": { "Ref": "MySNSTopic" },
        "Id": "OpsTopic"
      }
    ]
  }
}
"EventTopicPolicy": {
  "Type": "AWS::SNS::TopicPolicy",
  "Properties": {
    "PolicyDocument": {
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": { "Service": "events.amazonaws.com" },
          "Action": "sns:Publish",
          "Resource": "*"
        }
      ]
    },
    "Topics": [ { "Ref": "MySNSTopic" } ]
  }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

OpsEventRule:
  Type: AWS::Events::Rule
  Properties:
    Description: "EventRule"
    EventPattern:
      detail-type:
        - "AWS API Call via CloudTrail"
      detail:
        userIdentity:
          type:
            - "Root"
    State: "ENABLED"
    Targets:
      -
        Arn:
          Ref: "MySNSTopic"
        Id: "OpsTopic"
EventTopicPolicy:
  Type: 'AWS::SNS::TopicPolicy'
  Properties:
    PolicyDocument:
      Statement:
        - Effect: Allow
          Principal:
            Service: events.amazonaws.com
          Action: 'sns:Publish'
          Resource: '*'
    Topics:
      - !Ref MySNSTopic
```

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

AWS::Events::EventBusPolicy

AppSyncParameters
