This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::SES::ConfigurationSet TrackingOptions

An object that defines the tracking options for a configuration set. When you use the
Amazon SES API v2 to send an email, it contains an invisible image that's used to track
when recipients open your email. If your email contains links, those links are changed
slightly in order to track when recipients click them.

You can optionally configure a custom subdomain that is used to redirect email
recipients to an Amazon SES-operated domain. This domain captures open and click events
generated by Amazon SES emails.

For more information, see [Configuring Custom\
Domains to Handle Open and Click Tracking](../../../ses/latest/dg/configure-custom-open-click-domains.md) in the _Amazon SES_
_Developer Guide_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "CustomRedirectDomain" : String,
  "HttpsPolicy" : String
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

  CustomRedirectDomain: String
  HttpsPolicy: String

```

## Properties

`CustomRedirectDomain`

The custom subdomain that is used to redirect email recipients to the Amazon SES event
tracking domain.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`HttpsPolicy`

The name of the configuration set used when sent through a configuration set with archiving
enabled.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `REQUIRE|REQUIRE_OPEN_ONLY|OPTIONAL`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Tag

ValidationOptions

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
