This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::CodeBuild::Project S3LogsConfig

`S3Logs` is a property of the
[AWS CodeBuild Project LogsConfig](../userguide/aws-properties-codebuild-project-logsconfig.md) property type that specifies settings for logs generated by an AWS CodeBuild build in an S3 bucket.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "EncryptionDisabled" : Boolean,
  "Location" : String,
  "Status" : String
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

  EncryptionDisabled: Boolean
  Location: String
  Status: String

```

## Properties

`EncryptionDisabled`

Set to true if you do not want your S3 build log output encrypted. By default S3
build logs are encrypted.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Boolean

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Location`

The ARN of an S3 bucket and the path prefix for S3 logs. If your Amazon S3 bucket
name is `my-bucket`, and your path prefix is `build-log`, then
acceptable formats are `my-bucket/build-log` or
`arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/build-log`.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Status`

The current status of the S3 build logs. Valid values are:

- `ENABLED`: S3 build logs are enabled for this build project.

- `DISABLED`: S3 build logs are not enabled for this build
project.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `ENABLED | DISABLED`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## See also

- [S3LogsConfig](../../../../reference/codebuild/latest/apireference/api-s3logsconfig.md) in the _AWS CodeBuild API Reference_

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

RegistryCredential

ScopeConfiguration

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
