This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::ElementalInference::Feed

Represents a feed that receives media for inference processing.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::ElementalInference::Feed",
  "Properties" : {
      "Name" : String,
      "Outputs" : [ GetOutput, ... ],
      "Tags" : {Key: Value, ...}
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::ElementalInference::Feed
Properties:
  Name: String
  Outputs:
    - GetOutput
  Tags:
    Key: Value

```

## Properties

`Name`

A name for the feed.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `^[a-zA-Z0-9]([a-zA-Z0-9-_]{0,126}[a-zA-Z0-9])?$`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Outputs`

An array of outputs for this feed. Each output represents a specific Elemental Inference feature. For example, an output might represent the cropping feature.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: Array of [GetOutput](aws-properties-elementalinference-feed-getoutput.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Tags`

A collection of tags for this feed. Each tag is a key-value pair.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Object of String

_Pattern_: `.+`

_Maximum_: `256`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns the ID of the feed. For example:

`{"Ref":"abcdefghijklmnopqrst"}`

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

The `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using the `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function, see [`Fn::GetAtt`](intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`Arn`

The unique ARN of the feed, generated by Elemental Inference.

`DataEndpoints`

The unique data endpoint for this feed. The endpoint is used by feed to receive media data and return the resulting metadata.
For example, `https://stuvwxyz.elemental-inference-data.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/`

`Id`

The ID of the feed, generated by Elemental Inference.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

AWS Elemental Inference

ClippingConfig

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
