This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::Bedrock::Flow PromptFlowNodeConfiguration

Contains configurations for a prompt node in the flow. You can use a prompt from Prompt management or you can define one in this node. If the prompt contains variables, the inputs into this node will fill in the variables. The output from this node is the response generated by the model. For more information, see [Node types in a flow](../../../bedrock/latest/userguide/flows-nodes.md) in the Amazon Bedrock User Guide.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "GuardrailConfiguration" : GuardrailConfiguration,
  "SourceConfiguration" : PromptFlowNodeSourceConfiguration
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

  GuardrailConfiguration:
    GuardrailConfiguration
  SourceConfiguration:
    PromptFlowNodeSourceConfiguration

```

## Properties

`GuardrailConfiguration`

Contains configurations for a guardrail to apply to the prompt in this node and the response generated from it.

_Required_: No

_Type_: [GuardrailConfiguration](aws-properties-bedrock-flow-guardrailconfiguration.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SourceConfiguration`

Specifies whether the prompt is from Prompt management or defined inline.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: [PromptFlowNodeSourceConfiguration](aws-properties-bedrock-flow-promptflownodesourceconfiguration.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

PerformanceConfiguration

PromptFlowNodeInlineConfiguration

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
