# Athena engine version 3

For engine version 3, Athena has introduced a continuous integration approach to open
source software management that improves concurrency with the [Trino](https://trino.io/) and [Presto](https://prestodb.io/) projects so that
you get faster access to community improvements, integrated and tuned within the Athena
engine.

This release of Athena engine version 3 supports all the features of previous engine versions. This
document highlights key differences between previous engine versions and Athena engine version 3. For more
information, see the the _AWS Big Data Blog_ article [Upgrade to Athena engine version 3 to increase query performance and access more analytics\
features](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/upgrade-to-athena-engine-version-3-to-increase-query-performance-and-access-more-analytics-features).

- [Get started](#engine-versions-reference-0003-getting-started)

- [Improvements and new features](#engine-versions-reference-0003-improvements-and-new-features)

- [Added Features](#engine-versions-reference-0003-added-features)

- [Added Functions](#engine-versions-reference-0003-added-functions)

- [Performance improvements](#engine-versions-reference-0003-performance-improvements)

- [Reliability enhancements](#engine-versions-reference-0003-reliability-enhancements)

- [Query syntax enhancements](#engine-versions-reference-0003-query-syntax-enhancements)

- [Data format and data type enhancements](#engine-versions-reference-0003-data-format-and-data-type-enhancements)

- [Breaking changes](#engine-versions-reference-0003-breaking-changes)

- [Query syntax changes](#engine-versions-reference-0003-syntax-changes)

- [Data processing changes](#engine-versions-reference-0003-data-processing-changes)

- [Timestamp changes](#engine-versions-reference-0003-timestamp-changes)

- [Limitations](#engine-versions-reference-0003-known-limitations)

## Get started

To get started, either create a new Athena workgroup that uses Athena engine version 3 or configure an
existing workgroup to use version 3.

For more information, see [Changing Athena engine versions](engine-versions-changing.md).

## Improvements and new features

The features and updates listed include improvements from Athena itself and from
functionality incorporated from open source Trino. For an exhaustive list of SQL query
operators and functions, refer to the [Trino\
documentation](https://trino.io/docs/current/functions.html).

### Added Features

#### Apache Spark bucketing algorithm support

Athena can read buckets generated by the Spark hash algorithm. To specify that
data was originally written by the Spark hash algorithm, put
`('bucketing_format'='spark')` in the `TBLPROPERTIES`
clause of your `CREATE TABLE` statement. If this property is not
specified, the Hive hash algorithm is used.

```sql

CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE `spark_bucket_table`(
  `id` int,
  `name` string
  )
CLUSTERED BY (`name`)
INTO 8 BUCKETS
STORED AS PARQUET
LOCATION
  's3://amzn-s3-demo-bucket/to/bucketed/table/'
TBLPROPERTIES ('bucketing_format'='spark')
```

### Added Functions

The functions in this section are new to Athena engine version 3.

#### Aggregate functions

listagg(x, separator) – Returns the
concatenated input values, separated by the separator string.

```

SELECT listagg(value, ',') WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY value) csv_value
FROM (VALUES 'a', 'c', 'b') t(value);
```

#### Array functions

contains\_sequence(x, seq) – Returns true
if array x contains all array seq as a sequential subset (all values in the same
consecutive order).

```

SELECT contains_sequence(ARRAY [1,2,3,4,5,6], ARRAY[1,2]);
```

#### Binary functions

murmur3(binary) – Computes the 128-bit
MurmurHash3 hash of binary.

```

SELECT murmur3(from_base64('aaaaaa'));
```

#### Conversion functions

format\_number(number) – Returns a
formatted string using a unit symbol.

```

SELECT format_number(123456); -- '123K'
```

```

SELECT format_number(1000000); -- '1M'
```

#### Date and time functions

timezone\_hour(timestamp) – Returns the
hour of the time zone offset from timestamp.

```

SELECT EXTRACT(TIMEZONE_HOUR FROM TIMESTAMP '2020-05-10 12:34:56 +08:35');
```

timezone\_minute(timestamp) – Returns the
minute of the time zone offset from timestamp.

```

SELECT EXTRACT(TIMEZONE_MINUTE FROM TIMESTAMP '2020-05-10 12:34:56 +08:35');
```

#### Geospatial functions

to\_encoded\_polyline(Geometry) – Encodes
a linestring or multipoint to a polyline.

```

SELECT to_encoded_polyline(ST_GeometryFromText(
   'LINESTRING (-120.2 38.5, -120.95 40.7, -126.453 43.252)'));
```

from\_encoded\_polyline(varchar) – Decodes
a polyline to a linestring.

```

SELECT ST_AsText(from_encoded_polyline('_p~iF~ps|U_ulLnnqC_mqNvxq`@'));
```

to\_geojson\_geometry(SphericalGeography)
– Returns the specified spherical geography in GeoJSON format.

```

SELECT to_geojson_geometry(to_spherical_geography(ST_GeometryFromText(
   'LINESTRING (0 0, 1 2, 3 4)')));
```

from\_geojson\_geometry(varchar) – Returns
the spherical geography type object from the GeoJSON representation, stripping
non geometry key/values. `Feature` and `FeatureCollection`
are not supported.

```

SELECT from_geojson_geometry(to_geojson_geometry(to_spherical_geography(ST_GeometryFromText(
   'LINESTRING (0 0, 1 2, 3 4)'))));
```

geometry\_nearest\_points(Geometry, Geometry)
– Returns the points on each geometry that are nearest each other. If
either geometry is empty, returns NULL. Otherwise, returns a row of two
`Point` objects that have the minimum distance of any two points
on the geometries. The first point is from the first Geometry argument, the
second from the second Geometry argument. If there are multiple pairs with the
same minimum distance, one pair is chosen arbitrarily.

```

SELECT geometry_nearest_points(ST_GeometryFromText(
   'LINESTRING (50 100, 50 200)'), ST_GeometryFromText(
   'LINESTRING (10 10, 20 20)'));
```

#### Set Digest functions

make\_set\_digest(x) – Composes all input
values of x into a setdigest.

```

SELECT make_set_digest(value) FROM (VALUES 1, 2, 3) T(value);
```

#### String functions

soundex(char) – Returns a character
string that contains the phonetic representation of char.

```

SELECT name
FROM nation
WHERE SOUNDEX(name) = SOUNDEX('CHYNA'); -- CHINA
```

concat\_ws(string0, string1, ..., stringN)
– Returns the concatenation of `string1, string2, ...,
                        stringN` using `string0` as a separator. If
`string0` is null, then the return value is null. Any null values
provided in the arguments after the separator are skipped.

```

SELECT concat_ws(',', 'def', 'pqr', 'mno');
```

#### Window functions

GROUPS – Adds support for window frames
based on groups.

```

SELECT array_agg(a) OVER(
   ORDER BY a ASC NULLS FIRST GROUPS BETWEEN 1 PRECEDING AND 2 FOLLOWING)
FROM (VALUES 3, 3, 3, 2, 2, 1, null, null) T(a);
```

### Performance improvements

Performance improvements in Athena engine version 3 include the following.

- Faster AWS Glue table metadata retrieval
– Queries that involve multiple tables will see reduced query
planning time.

- Dynamic filtering for RIGHT JOIN –
Dynamic filtering is now enabled for right joins that have equality join
conditions, as in the following example.

```

SELECT *
FROM lineitem RIGHT JOIN tpch.tiny.supplier
ON lineitem.suppkey = supplier.suppkey
WHERE supplier.name = 'abc';
```

- Large prepared statements –
Increased the default HTTP request/response header size to 2 MB to allow
large prepared statements.

- approx\_percentile() – The
`approx_percentile` function now uses `tdigest`
instead of `qdigest` to retrieve approximate quantile values from
distributions. This results in higher performance and lower memory usage.
Note that as a result of this change, the function returns different results
than it did in previous engine versions. For more information, see [The approx\_percentile function returns different results](#engine-versions-reference-0003-approx-percentile-function).

### Reliability enhancements

General engine memory usage and tracking in Athena engine version 3 have been improved. Large
queries are less susceptible to failure from node crashes.

### Query syntax enhancements

INTERSECT ALL – Added support for
`INTERSECT ALL`.

```

SELECT * FROM (VALUES 1, 2, 3, 4) INTERSECT ALL SELECT * FROM (VALUES 3, 4);
```

EXCEPT ALL – Added support for `EXCEPT
                    ALL`.

```

SELECT * FROM (VALUES 1, 2, 3, 4) EXCEPT ALL SELECT * FROM (VALUES 3, 4);
```

RANGE PRECEDING – Added support for
`RANGE PRECEDING` in window functions.

```

SELECT sum(x) over (order by x range 1 preceding)
FROM (values (1), (1), (2), (2)) t(x);
```

MATCH\_RECOGNIZE – Added support for row
pattern matching, as in the following example.

```sql

SELECT m.id AS row_id, m.match, m.val, m.label
FROM (VALUES(1, 90),(2, 80),(3, 70),(4, 70)) t(id, value)
MATCH_RECOGNIZE (
        ORDER BY id
        MEASURES match_number() AS match,
        RUNNING LAST(value) AS val,
        classifier() AS label
        ALL ROWS PER MATCH
        AFTER MATCH SKIP PAST LAST ROW
        PATTERN (() | A) DEFINE A AS true
) AS m;
```

### Data format and data type enhancements

Athena engine version 3 has the following data format and data type enhancements.

- LZ4 and ZSTD – Added support for
reading LZ4 and ZSTD compressed Parquet data. Added support for writing ZSTD
compressed ORC data.

- Symlink-based tables – Added support
for creating symlink-based tables on Avro files. An example follows.

```sql

CREATE TABLE test_avro_symlink
ROW FORMAT SERDE 'org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.avro.AvroSerDe'
...
INPUTFORMAT 'org.apache.hadoop.hive.ql.io.SymlinkTextInputFormat'
```

- SphericalGeography – The
SphericalGeography type provides native support for spatial features
represented on geographic coordinates (sometimes called geodetic
coordinates, lat/lon, or lon/lat). Geographic coordinates are spherical
coordinates expressed in angular units (degrees).

The `to_spherical_geography` function returns geographic
(spherical) coordinates from geometric (planar) coordinates, as in the
following example.

```

SELECT to_spherical_geography(ST_GeometryFromText(
     'LINESTRING (-40.2 28.9, -40.2 31.9, -37.2 31.9)'));
```

## Breaking changes

When you migrate from previous engine versions to Athena engine version 3, certain changes can affect table schema,
syntax, or data type usage. This section lists the associated error messages and
provides suggested workarounds.

### Query syntax changes

#### IGNORE NULLS cannot be used with non-value window functions

Error message: **`Cannot specify null**
**treatment clause for bool_or function.`**

Cause: `IGNORE NULLS` can now be
used only with the [value functions](https://trino.io/docs/current/functions/window.html) `first_value`, `last_value`, `nth_value`,
`lead`, and `lag`. This change was made to conform to
the ANSI SQL specification.

Suggested solution: Remove `IGNORE
                        NULLS` from non-value window functions in query strings.

#### CONCAT function must have two or more arguments

Error Message:
**`INVALID_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT: There must be two or more**
**concatenation arguments`**

Cause: Previously, the `CONCAT`
string function accepted a single argument. In Athena engine version 3, the `CONCAT`
function requires a minimum of two arguments.

Suggested solution: Change occurrences of
`CONCAT(str)` to `CONCAT(str, '')`.

In Athena engine version 3, functions can have no more than 127 arguments. For more
information, see [Too many arguments for function call](troubleshooting-athena.md#troubleshooting-athena-too-many-arguments).

#### The approx\_percentile function returns different results

The `approx_percentile` function returns different results in
Athena engine version 3 than it did in previous engine versions.

Error message: None.

Cause: The `approx_percentile`
function is subject to version changes.

###### Important

Because the outputs of the `approx_percentile` function are
approximations, and the approximations are subject to change from one
version to the next, you should not rely on the
`approx_percentile` function for critical
applications.

Suggested Solution: To approximate the previous engine versions
behavior of `approx_percentile`, you can use a different set of
functions in Athena engine version 3. For example, suppose you have the following query in
previous engine versions:

```sql

SELECT approx_percentile(somecol, 2E-1)
```

To approximate the same output in Athena engine version 3, you can try the
`qdigest_agg` and `value_at_quantile` functions, as in
the following example. Note that, even with this workaround, the same behavior
is not guaranteed.

```sql

SELECT value_at_quantile(qdigest_agg(somecol, 1), 2E-1)
```

#### Geospatial function does not support varbinary input

Error message: **`FUNCTION_NOT_FOUND**
**for st_XXX`**

Cause: A few geospatial functions no longer
support the legacy `VARBINARY` input type or text related function
signatures.

Suggested solution: Use geospatial functions to
convert the input types to types that are supported. Supported input types are
indicated in the error message.

#### In GROUP BY clauses, nested columns must be double quoted

Error message: **`**
**"column_name"."nested_column"**
**must be an aggregate expression or appear in GROUP BY**
**clause`**

Cause: Athena engine version 3 requires that nested column
names in `GROUP BY` clauses be double quoted. For example, the
following query produces the error because, in the `GROUP BY` clause,
`user.name` is not double quoted.

```sql

SELECT "user"."name" FROM dataset
GROUP BY user.name
```

Suggested solution: Place double quotes around
nested column names in `GROUP BY` clauses, as in the following
example.

```sql

SELECT "user"."name" FROM dataset
GROUP BY "user"."name"
```

#### Unexpected FilterNode error when using OPTIMIZE on an Iceberg table

Error message: **`Unexpected FilterNode**
**found in plan; probably connector was not able to handle provided WHERE**
**expression.`**

Cause: The `OPTIMIZE` statement that
was run on the Iceberg table used a `WHERE` clause that included a
non-partition column in its filter expression.

Suggested Solution: The `OPTIMIZE`
statement supports filtering by partitions only. When you run
`OPTIMIZE` on partitioned tables, include only partition columns
in the `WHERE` clause. If you run `OPTIMIZE` on a
non-partitioned table, do not specify a `WHERE` clause.

#### Log() function order of arguments

In Athena engine version 3, the order of arguments for the `log()` function has
changed to `log(base,
                            value)` in conformance with SQL
standards.

#### Minute() function does not support interval year to month

Error message: **`Unexpected parameters**
**(interval year to month) for function minute. Expected: minute(timestamp**
**with time zone) , minute(time with time zone) , minute(timestamp) ,**
**minute(time) , minute(interval day to second).`**

Cause: In Athena engine version 3, type checks have been made
more precise for `EXTRACT` in accordance with the ANSI SQL
specification.

Suggested solution: Update the queries to make
sure types are matched with the suggested function signatures.

#### ORDER BY expressions must appear in SELECT list

Error message: **`For SELECT DISTINCT,**
**ORDER BY expressions must appear in SELECT list`**

Cause: Incorrect table aliasing is used in a
`SELECT` clause.

Suggested solution: Double check that all
columns in the `ORDER BY` expression have proper references in the
`SELECT DISTINCT` clause.

#### Query failure when comparing multiple columns returned from a subquery

Example error message: **`Value**
**expression and result of subquery must be of the same type: row(varchar,**
**varchar) vs row(row(varchar, varchar))`**

Cause: Due to a syntax update in Athena engine version 3, this
error occurs when a query tries to compare multiple values returned from a
subquery, and the subquery `SELECT` statement encloses its list of
columns in parentheses, as in the following example.

```sql

SELECT *
FROM table1
WHERE (t1_col1, t1_col2)
IN (SELECT (t2_col1, t2_col2) FROM table2)
```

Solution: In Athena engine version 3, remove the parenthesis
around the list of columns in the subquery `SELECT` statement, as in
the following updated example query.

```sql

SELECT *
FROM table1
WHERE (t1_col1, t1_col2)
IN (SELECT t2_col1, t2_col2 FROM table2)
```

#### SKIP is a reserved word for DML queries

The word `SKIP` is now a reserved word for DML queries like
`SELECT`. To use `SKIP` as an identifier in a DML
query, enclose it in double quotes.

For more information about reserved words in Athena, see [Escape reserved keywords in queries](reserved-words.md).

#### SYSTEM\_TIME and SYSTEM\_VERSION clauses deprecated for time travel

Error message: **`mismatched input**
**'SYSTEM_TIME'. Expecting: 'TIMESTAMP', 'VERSION'`**

Cause: In previous engine versions, Iceberg tables used the
`FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF` and `FOR SYSTEM_VERSION AS OF`
clauses for timestamp and version time travel. Athena engine version 3 uses the `FOR
                        TIMESTAMP AS OF` and `FOR VERSION AS OF` clauses.

Suggested solution: Update the SQL query to use
the `TIMESTAMP AS OF` and `VERSION AS OF` clauses for time
travel operations, as in the following examples.

Time travel by timestamp:

```sql

SELECT * FROM TABLE FOR TIMESTAMP AS OF (current_timestamp - interval '1' day)
```

Time travel by version:

```sql

SELECT * FROM TABLE FOR VERSION AS OF 949530903748831860
```

#### Too many arguments for an array constructor

Error Message: **`TOO_MANY_ARGUMENTS:**
**Too many arguments for array constructor.`**

Cause: The maximum number of elements in an
array constructor is now set at 254.

Suggested solution: Break up the elements into
multiple arrays that have 254 or fewer elements each, and use the
`CONCAT` function to concatenate the arrays, as in the following
example.

```sql

CONCAT(
ARRAY[x1,x2,x3...x254],
ARRAY[y1,y2,y3...y254],
...
)
```

#### Zero-length delimited identifier not allowed

Error message: **`Zero-length delimited**
**identifier not allowed.`**

Cause: A query used an empty string as a column
alias.

Suggested solution: Update the query to use a
non-empty alias for the column.

### Data processing changes

#### Bucket validation

Error Message:
**`HIVE_INVALID_BUCKET_FILES: Hive table is**
**corrupt.`**

Cause: The table might have been corrupted. To
ensure query correctness for bucketed tables, Athena engine version 3 enables additional
validation on bucketed tables to ensure query correctness and avoid unexpected
failures at runtime.

Suggested solution: Re-create the table using
Athena engine version 3.

#### Casting a struct to JSON now returns field names

When you cast a `struct` to JSON in a `SELECT` query in
Athena engine version 3, the cast now returns both the field names and the values (for example
" `useragent":null` instead of just the values (for example,
`null`).

#### Iceberg table column level security enforcement change

Error Message: **`Access Denied: Cannot**
**select from columns`**

Cause: The Iceberg table was created outside
Athena and uses an [Apache\
Iceberg SDK](https://iceberg.apache.org/releases) version earlier than 0.13.0. Because earlier SDK
versions do not populate columns in AWS Glue, Lake Formation could not determine the columns
authorized for access.

Suggested solution: Perform an update using the
Athena [ALTER TABLE SET TBLPROPERTIES](querying-iceberg-alter-table-set-properties.md) statement or
use the latest Iceberg SDK to fix the table and update the column information in
AWS Glue.

#### Nulls in List data types are now propagated to UDFs

Error message: **`Null Pointer**
**Exception`**

Cause: This issue can affect you if you use the
UDF connector and have implemented a user defined Lambda function.

The previous engine versions filtered out the nulls in List data types that were passed to a
user defined function. In Athena engine version 3, the nulls are now preserved and passed on to
the UDF. This can cause a null pointer exception if the UDF attempts to
dereference the null element without checking.

For example, if you have the data `[null, 1, null, 2, 3, 4]` in an
originating data source like DynamoDB, the following are passed to the user-defined
Lambda function:

Athena engine version 3: `[null, 1, null, 2, 3,
                    4]`

Suggested solution: Ensure that your
user-defined Lambda function handles null elements in list data types.

#### Substrings from character arrays no longer contain padded spaces

Error message: No error is thrown, but the
string returned no longer contains padded spaces. For example,
`substr(char[20],1,100)` now returns a string with length 20
instead of 100.

Suggested solution: No action is
required.

#### Unsupported decimal column type coercion

Error messages: **`HIVE_CURSOR_ERROR:**
**Failed to read Parquet file:**
**s3://amzn-s3-demo-bucket/path/file_name.parquet`**
or **`Unsupported column type (varchar) for Parquet column**
**([column_name]`**

Cause: Athena engine version 2 occasionally succeeded (but
frequently failed) when attempting data type coercions from `varchar`
to decimal. Because Athena engine version 3 has type validation that checks that the type is
compatible before it tries to read the value, such attempted coercions now
always fail.

Suggested Solution: For Athena engine version 3, modify your
schema in AWS Glue to use a numeric data type instead of `varchar` for
decimal columns in Parquet files. Either recrawl the data and ensure that the
new column data type is a decimal type, or manually re-create the table in Athena
and use the syntax `decimal(precision,
                            scale)` to specify a [decimal](data-types.md#data-types-decimal) data type for the
column.

#### Float or double NaN values can no longer be cast to bigint

Error Message:
**`INVALID_CAST_ARGUMENT: Cannot cast real/double NaN to**
**bigint`**

Cause: In Athena engine version 3, `NaN` can no
longer be cast to 0 as `bigint`.

Suggested solution: Make sure that
`NaN` values are not present in `float` or
`double` columns when you cast to `bigint`.

#### uuid() function return type change

The following issue affects both tables and views.

Error message: **`Unsupported Hive**
**type: uuid`**

Cause: In previous engine versions, the `uuid()`
function returned a string, but in Athena engine version 3, it returns a pseudo randomly
generated UUID (type 4). Because the UUID column data type is not supported in
Athena, the `uuid()` function can no longer be used directly in CTAS
queries to generate UUID columns in Athena engine version 3.

For example, the following `CREATE TABLE` statement completes
successfully in previous engine versions but returns **`NOT_SUPPORTED: Unsupported Hive**
**type: uuid`** in Athena engine version 3:

```sql

CREATE TABLE uuid_table AS
   SELECT uuid() AS myuuid
```

Similarly, the following `CREATE VIEW` statement completed
successfully in Athena engine version 2 but returns **`Invalid column type for column**
**myuuid: Unsupported Hive type: uuid`** in Athena engine version 3:

```sql

CREATE VIEW uuid_view AS
   SELECT uuid() AS myuuid
```

When a view so created in previous engine versions is queried in Athena engine version 3, an error like the
following occurs:

**`VIEW_IS_STALE: line 1:15: View**
**'awsdatacatalog.mydatabase.uuid_view' is stale or in invalid state: column**
**[myuuid] of type uuid projected from query view at position 0 cannot be**
**coerced to column [myuuid] of type varchar stored in view**
**definition`**

Suggested Solution: When you create the table
or view, use the `cast()` function to convert the output of
`uuid()` to a `varchar`, as in the following
examples:

```sql

CREATE TABLE uuid_table AS
   SELECT CAST(uuid() AS VARCHAR) AS myuuid
```

```sql

CREATE VIEW uuid_view AS
   SELECT CAST(uuid() AS VARCHAR) AS myuuid
```

#### CHAR and VARCHAR coercion issues

Use the workarounds in this section if you encounter coercion issues with
`varchar` and `char` in Athena engine version 3. If you are unable to
use these workarounds, please contact Support.

##### CONCAT function failure with mixed CHAR and VARCHAR inputs

Issue: The following query succeeds on
Athena engine version 2.

```sql

SELECT concat(CAST('abc' AS VARCHAR(20)), '12', CAST('a' AS CHAR(1)))
```

However, on Athena engine version 3, the same query fails with the following:

Error message:
**`FUNCTION_NOT_FOUND: line 1:8: Unexpected parameters**
**(varchar(20), varchar(2), char(1)) for function concat. Expected:**
**concat(char(x), char(y)), concat(array(E), E) E, concat(E, array(E)) E,**
**concat(array(E)) E, concat(varchar),**
**concat(varbinary)`**

Suggested Solution: When using the
`concat` function, cast to `char` or
`varchar`, but not to a mix of both.

##### SQL \|\| concatenation failure with CHAR and VARCHAR inputs

In Athena engine version 3, the double vertical bar `||` concatenation operator
requires `varchar` as inputs. The inputs cannot be a combination
of `varchar` and `char` types.

Error message: **`TYPE_NOT_FOUND:**
**line 1:26: Unknown type: char(65537) `**

Cause: A query that uses `||` to
concatenate a `char` and a `varchar` can produce the
error, as in the following example.

```sql

SELECT CAST('a' AS CHAR) || CAST('b' AS VARCHAR)
```

Suggested Solution: Concatenate
`varchar` with `varchar`, as in the following
example.

```sql

SELECT CAST('a' AS VARCHAR) || CAST('b' AS VARCHAR)
```

##### CHAR and VARCHAR UNION query failure

Error message: **`NOT_SUPPORTED:**
**Unsupported Hive type: char(65536). Supported CHAR types: CHAR(<=255)**
**`**

Cause: A query that attempts to combine
`char` and `varchar`, as in the following
example:

```sql

CREATE TABLE t1 (c1) AS SELECT CAST('a' as CHAR) as c1 UNION ALL SELECT CAST('b' AS VARCHAR) AS c1
```

Suggested Solution: In the example query,
cast `'a'` as `varchar` rather than `char`.

##### Unwanted empty spaces after CHAR or VARCHAR coercion

In Athena engine version 3, when `char(X)` and `varchar` data are
coerced to a single type when forming an array or single column,
`char(65535)` is the target type, and each field contains
many unwanted trailing spaces.

Cause: Athena engine version 3 coerces `varchar`
and `char(X)` to `char(65535)` and then right pads the
data with spaces.

Suggested Solution: Cast each field
explicitly to `varchar`.

### Timestamp changes

#### Date timestamp overflow throws error

Error message: **`Millis overflow:**
**XXX`**

Cause: Because ISO 8601 dates were not checked
for overflow in previous engine versions, some dates produced a negative timestamp. Athena engine version 3
checks for this overflow and throws an exception.

Suggested Solution: Make sure the timestamp is
within range.

#### Political time zones with TIME not supported

Error message: **`INVALID**
**LITERAL`**

Cause: Queries like `SELECT TIME
                        '13:21:32.424 America/Los_Angeles'`.

Suggested solution: Avoid using political time
zones with `TIME`.

#### Precision mismatch in Timestamp columns causes serialization error

Error message: **`SERIALIZATION_ERROR:**
**Could not serialize column 'COLUMNZ' of type**
**'timestamp(3)' at position**
**X:Y`**

`COLUMNZ` is the output name of the column that
causes the issue. The numbers
`X`: `Y` indicate the
position of the column in the output.

Cause: Athena engine version 3 checks to make sure that the
precision of timestamps in the data is the same as the precision specified for
the column data type in the table specification. Currently, this precision is
always 3. If the data has a precision greater than this, queries fail with the
error noted.

Suggested solution: Check your data to make
sure that your timestamps have millisecond precision.

#### Incorrect timestamp precision in UNLOAD and CTAS queries for Iceberg tables

Error message: **`Incorrect timestamp**
**precision for timestamp(6); the configured precision is**
**MILLISECONDS`**

Cause: Athena engine version 3 checks to make sure that the
precision of timestamps in the data is the same as the precision specified for
the column data type in the table specification. Currently, this precision is
always 3. If the data has a precision greater than this (for example,
microseconds instead of milliseconds), queries can fail with the error
noted.

Solution: To work around this issue, first
`CAST` the timestamp precision to 6, as in the following CTAS
example that creates an Iceberg table. Note that the precision must be specified
as 6 instead of 3 to avoid the error **`Timestamp precision (3) not**
**supported for Iceberg`**.

```sql

CREATE TABLE my_iceberg_ctas
WITH (table_type = 'ICEBERG', location = 's3://amzn-s3-demo-bucket/table_ctas/',
format = 'PARQUET')
AS SELECT id, CAST(dt AS timestamp(6)) AS "dt"
FROM my_iceberg
```

Then, because Athena does not support timestamp 6, cast the value again to
timestamp (for example, in a view). The following example creates a view from
the `my_iceberg_ctas` table.

```sql

CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW my_iceberg_ctas_view AS
SELECT cast(dt AS timestamp) AS dt
FROM my_iceberg_ctas
```

#### Reading the Long type as Timestamp or vice versa in ORC files now causes a malformed ORC file error

Error message: **`Error opening Hive**
**split ‘FILE (SPLIT POSITION)’ Malformed ORC file. Cannot read SQL type**
**timestamp from ORC stream .long_type of type LONG`**

Cause: Athena engine version 3 now rejects implicit coercion
from the `Long` data type to `Timestamp` or from
`Timestamp` to `Long`. Previously, `Long`
values were implicitly converted into timestamp as if they were epoch
milliseconds.

Suggested solution: Use the
`from_unixtime` function to explicitly cast the column, or use
the `from_unixtime` function to create an additional column for
future queries.

#### Time and interval year to month not supported

Error message: **`TYPE**
**MISMATCH`**

Cause: Athena engine version 3 does not support time and
interval year to month (for example, `SELECT TIME '01:00' + INTERVAL '3'
                        MONTH`).

#### Timestamp overflow for int96 Parquet format

Error message: **`Invalid**
**timeOfDayNanos`**

Cause: A timestamp overflow for the
`int96` Parquet format.

Suggested solution: Identify the specific files
that have the issue. Then generate the data file again with an up-to-date, well
known Parquet library, or use Athena CTAS. If the issue persists, contact Athena
support and let us know how the data files are generated.

#### Space required between date and time values when casting from string to timestamp

Error message:
**`INVALID_CAST_ARGUMENT: Value cannot be cast to**
**timestamp`**.

Cause: Athena engine version 3 no longer accepts a hyphen as a
valid separator between date and time values in the input string to
`cast`. For example, the following query does not work in
Athena engine version 3:

```sql

SELECT CAST('2021-06-06-23:38:46' AS timestamp) AS this_time
```

Suggested solution: In Athena engine version 3, replace the
hyphen between the date and the time with a space, as in the following
example.

```sql

SELECT CAST('2021-06-06 23:38:46' AS timestamp) AS this_time
```

#### to\_iso8601() timestamp return value change

Error message: None

Cause: In previous engine versions, the `to_iso8601`
function returns a timestamp with time zone even if the value passed to the
function does not include the time zone. In Athena engine version 3, the `to_iso8601`
function returns a timestamp with time zone only when the argument passed
includes the time zone.

For example, the following query passes the current date to the
`to_iso8601` function twice: first as a timestamp with time zone,
and then as a timestamp.

```sql

SELECT TO_ISO8601(CAST(CURRENT_DATE AS TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE)), TO_ISO8601(CAST(CURRENT_DATE AS TIMESTAMP))
```

The following output shows the result of the query in Athena engine version 3.

In previous engine versions:

#\_col0\_col1`1`

`2023-02-24T00:00:00.000Z `

`2023-02-24T00:00:00.000Z`

Athena engine version 3:

#\_col0\_col1`1`

`2023-02-24T00:00:00.000Z`

`2023-02-24T00:00:00.000`

Suggested solution: To replicate the previous
behaviour, you can pass the timestamp value to the `with_timezone`
function before passing it to `to_iso8601`, as in the following
example:

```sql

SELECT to_iso8601(with_timezone(TIMESTAMP '2023-01-01 00:00:00.000', 'UTC'))
```

Result

#\_col0`1``2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z`

#### at\_timezone() first parameter must specify a date

Issue: In Athena engine version 3, the `at_timezone`
function cannot take a `time_with_timezone` value as the first
parameter.

Cause: Without date information, it cannot be
determined whether the value passed is daylight time or standard time. For
example, `at_timezone('12:00:00 UTC', 'America/Los_Angeles')` is
ambiguous since there is no way to determine whether the value passed is Pacific
Daylight Time (PDT) or Pacific Standard Time (PST).

## Limitations

Athena engine version 3 has the following limitations.

- Query performance – Many queries run
faster on Athena engine version 3, but some query plans can differ from previous engine versions. As a result,
some queries can differ in latency or cost.

- Trino and Presto connectors – Neither
[Trino](https://trino.io/docs/current/connector.html) nor
[Presto](https://prestodb.io/docs/current/connector.html)
connectors are supported. Use Amazon Athena Federated Query to connect data sources. For more
information, see [Use Amazon Athena Federated Query](federated-queries.md).

- Fault-tolerant execution – Trino [fault-tolerant execution](https://trino.io/docs/current/admin/fault-tolerant-execution.html) (Trino Tardigrade) is not
supported.

- Function parameter limit – Functions
cannot take more than 127 parameters. For more information, see [Too many arguments for function call](troubleshooting-athena.md#troubleshooting-athena-too-many-arguments).

The following limits were introduced in Athena engine version 2 to ensure that queries do not fail due
to resource limitations. These limits are not configurable by users.

- Number of result elements – The number
of result elements `n` is restricted to 10,000 or less for the
following functions: `min(col, n)`, `max(col, n)`,
`min_by(col1, col2, n)`, and `max_by(col1, col2,
                      n)`.

- GROUPING SETS – The maximum number of
slices in a grouping set is 2048.

- Maximum text file line length – The
default maximum line length for text files is 200 MB.

- Sequence function maximum result size –
The maximum result size of a sequence function is 50000 entries. For example,
`SELECT sequence(0,45000,1)` succeeds, but `SELECT
                          sequence(0,55000,1)` fails with the error message **`The**
**result of the sequence function must not have more than 50000**
**entries`**. This limit applies to all input types for sequence
functions, including timestamps.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Change engine versions

SQL reference for Athena

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
