# DeleteStack

Deletes a specified stack. Once the call completes successfully, stack deletion starts.
Deleted stacks don't show up in the [DescribeStacks](api-describestacks.md) operation if the deletion
has been completed successfully.

For more information about deleting a stack, see [Delete a stack from\
the CloudFormation console](../../../../services/cloudformation/latest/userguide/cfn-console-delete-stack.md) in the _AWS CloudFormation User Guide_.

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

**ClientRequestToken**

A unique identifier for this `DeleteStack` request. Specify this token if you
plan to retry requests so that CloudFormation knows that you're not attempting to delete a stack
with the same name. You might retry `DeleteStack` requests to ensure that
CloudFormation successfully received them.

All events initiated by a given stack operation are assigned the same client request
token, which you can use to track operations. For example, if you execute a
`CreateStack` operation with the token `token1`, then all the
`StackEvents` generated by that operation will have
`ClientRequestToken` set as `token1`.

In the console, stack operations display the client request token on the Events tab. Stack
operations that are initiated from the console use the token format
_Console-StackOperation-ID_, which helps you easily identify the stack
operation . For example, if you create a stack using the console, each stack event would be
assigned the same token in the following format:
`Console-CreateStack-7f59c3cf-00d2-40c7-b2ff-e75db0987002`.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 128.

Pattern: `[a-zA-Z0-9][-a-zA-Z0-9]*`

Required: No

**DeletionMode**

Specifies the deletion mode for the stack. Possible values are:

- `STANDARD` \- Use the standard behavior. Specifying this value is the same
as not specifying this parameter.

- `FORCE_DELETE_STACK` \- Delete the stack if it's stuck in a
`DELETE_FAILED` state due to resource deletion failure.

Type: String

Valid Values: `STANDARD | FORCE_DELETE_STACK`

Required: No

**RetainResources.member.N**

For stacks in the `DELETE_FAILED` state, a list of resource logical IDs that
are associated with the resources you want to retain. During deletion, CloudFormation deletes the
stack but doesn't delete the retained resources.

Retaining resources is useful when you can't delete a resource, such as a non-empty S3
bucket, but you want to delete the stack.

Type: Array of strings

Required: No

**RoleARN**

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of an IAM role that CloudFormation assumes to delete the
stack. CloudFormation uses the role's credentials to make calls on your behalf.

If you don't specify a value, CloudFormation uses the role that was previously associated with
the stack. If no role is available, CloudFormation uses a temporary session that's generated from
your user credentials.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 20. Maximum length of 2048.

Required: No

**StackName**

The name or the unique stack ID that's associated with the stack.

Type: String

Required: Yes

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**TokenAlreadyExists**

A client request token already exists.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## Examples

### DeleteStack

This example illustrates one usage of DeleteStack.

#### Sample Request

```

https://cloudformation.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/
 ?Action=DeleteStack
 &StackName=MyStack
 &Version=2010-05-15
 &SignatureVersion=2
 &Timestamp=2010-07-27T22%3A26%3A28.000Z
 &AWSAccessKeyId=[AWS Access KeyID]
 &Signature=[Signature]
```

#### Sample Response

```

<DeleteStackResponse xmlns="http://cloudformation.amazonaws.com/doc/2010-05-15/">
  <ResponseMetadata>
    <RequestId>5ccc7dcd-744c-11e5-be70-example</RequestId>
  </ResponseMetadata>
</DeleteStackResponse>
```

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/cloudformation-2010-05-15/deletestack.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

DeleteGeneratedTemplate

DeleteStackInstances
