# Configure a cross-account API Gateway Lambda authorizer

You can now also use an AWS Lambda function from a different AWS account as your API authorizer function.
Each account can be in any region where Amazon API Gateway is available. The Lambda authorizer function can use bearer token
authentication strategies such as OAuth or SAML. This makes it easy to centrally manage and share a central Lambda
authorizer function across multiple API Gateway APIs.

In this section, we show how to configure a cross-account Lambda authorizer function using the Amazon API Gateway
console.

These instructions assume that you already have an API Gateway API in one AWS account and a Lambda authorizer
function in another account.

## Configure a cross-account Lambda authorizer using the API Gateway console

Log in to the Amazon API Gateway console in the account that has your API in it, and then do the
following:

01. Choose your API, and then in the main navigation pane, choose **Authorizers**.

02. Choose **Create authorizer**.

03. For **Authorizer name**, enter a name for the authorizer.

04. For **Authorizer type**, select **Lambda**.

05. For **Lambda Function**, enter the full ARN for the Lambda authorizer function that
     you have in your second account.

    ###### Note

    In the Lambda console, you can find the ARN for your function in the upper right corner of the console
    window.

06. A warning with an `aws lambda add-permission` command string will appear. This policy
     grants API Gateway permission to invoke the authorizer Lambda function. Copy the command and save it for later.
     You run the command after you create the authorizer.

07. For **Lambda event payload**, select either **Token** for a
     `TOKEN` authorizer or **Request** for a `REQUEST`
     authorizer.

08. Depending on the choice of the previous step, do one of the following:

    1. For the **Token** option, do the following:

- For **Token source**, enter the header name that contains the authorization token. The API client must include a
header of this name to send the authorization token to the Lambda authorizer.

- Optionally, for **Token validation**, enter a RegEx statement. API Gateway performs
initial validation of the input token against this expression and invokes the authorizer upon
successful validation. This helps reduce calls to your API.

- To cache the authorization policy generated by the authorizer, keep **Authorization**
**caching** turned on. When policy caching is enabled, you can choose to modify the
**TTL** value. Setting the **TTL** to zero disables policy caching.
When policy caching is enabled, the header name specified in **Token source** becomes
the cache key. If multiple values are passed to this header in the request, all values will become the
cache key, with the order preserved.

###### Note

The default **TTL** value is 300 seconds. The maximum value is 3600 seconds;
this limit cannot be increased.

    2. For the **Request** option, do the following:

- For **Identity source type**, select a parameter type. Supported parameter types are `Header`,
`Query string`, `Stage
                            variable`, and `Context`. To add more identity sources, choose **Add**
**parameter**.

- To cache the authorization policy generated by the authorizer, keep **Authorization**
**caching** turned on. When policy caching is enabled, you can choose to modify the
**TTL** value. Setting the **TTL** to zero disables policy caching.

API Gateway uses the specified identity sources as the request authorizer caching key. When caching is
enabled, API Gateway calls the authorizer's Lambda function only after successfully verifying that all the
specified identity sources are present at runtime. If a specified identity source is missing, null, or
empty, API Gateway returns a `401 Unauthorized` response without calling the authorizer Lambda
function.

When multiple identity sources are defined, they are all used to derive the authorizer's cache
key. Changing any of the cache key parts causes the authorizer to discard the cached policy document
and generate a new one. If a header with multiple values is passed in the request, then all values
will be part of the cache key, with the order preserved.

- When caching is turned off, it is not necessary to specify an identity source.

###### Note

To enable caching, your authorizer must return a policy that is applicable to all methods across an
API. To enforce method-specific policy, you can turn off **Authorization caching**.

09. Choose **Create authorizer**.

10. Paste the `aws lambda add-permission` command string that you copied in a previous step into
     an AWS CLI window that is configured for your second account. Replace `AUTHORIZER_ID` with your
     authorizer's ID. This will grant your first account access to your second account's Lambda authorizer
     function.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Call an API with Lambda authorizers

Control access based on an identity’s attributes with Verified Permissions

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
