# Custom domain name for public REST APIs in API Gateway

_Custom domain names_ are simpler and more intuitive URLs that you can
provide to your API users.

After deploying your API, you (and your customers) can invoke the API
using the default base URL of the following format:

```nohighlight

https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/stage
```

where `api-id` is generated by API Gateway, `region` is the AWS Region,
and `stage` is specified by you when deploying the
API.

The hostname portion of the URL,
`api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com`
refers to an API endpoint. The default API endpoint name is randomly generated, difficult to recall, and not user-friendly.

With custom domain names, you can set up your API's hostname, and choose a base path (for
example, `myservice`) to map the alternative URL to your API. For example, a more
user-friendly API base URL can become:

```nohighlight

https://api.example.com/myservice
```

###### Note

For information about custom domain names for private APIs, see [Custom domain names for private APIs in API Gateway](apigateway-private-custom-domains.md).

## Considerations

The following considerations might impact your use of a custom domain name:

- You can disable the default endpoint for your API. Clients can still connect to your default endpoint, but
they will receive a `403 Forbidden` status code.

- A Regional custom domain name can be associated with REST APIs and HTTP APIs. You can use the
[API Gateway Version 2\
APIs](../../../apigatewayv2/latest/api-reference/api-reference.md) to create and manage Regional custom domain names for REST APIs.

- A custom domain name must be unique within a Region across all AWS accounts.

- You can migrate your custom domain name between edge-optimized and Regional endpoints, but you can't
migrate a public custom domain to a private custom domain name.

- You must create or update your DNS provider's resource record to map to your API endpoint. Without
such a mapping, API requests bound for the custom domain name cannot reach API Gateway.

- You can support an almost infinite number of domain names without exceeding the default quota by using a
wildcard certificate. For more information, see [Wildcard custom domain names](#wildcard-custom-domain-names).

- You can choose a security policy for your custom domain name. For more
information, see [Choose a security policy for your custom domain in API Gateway](apigateway-custom-domain-tls-version.md).

- To configure API mappings with multiple levels, you must use a Regional custom domain name and use the TLS
1.2 security policy.

## Prerequisites for custom domain names

The following are prerequisites for creating a public or private custom domain name. For information about
custom domain names for private APIs, see [Custom domain names for private APIs in API Gateway](apigateway-private-custom-domains.md).

### Register a domain name

You must have a registered internet domain name in order to set up custom domain names for your APIs. You
can register your internet domain name using [Amazon Route 53](../../../route53/latest/developerguide.md) or using a third-party
domain registrar of your choice. Your custom domain name can be the name of a subdomain or the root domain (also
known as the "zone apex") of a registered internet domain.

Your domain name must follow the [RFC\
1035](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1035) specification and can have a maximum of 63 octets per label and 255 octets in total.

### Specify the certificate for your custom domain name

Before setting up a custom domain name for an API, you must have an SSL/TLS certificate ready in ACM. If
ACM is not available in the AWS Region where you are creating your custom domain name, you must import a
certificate to API Gateway in that Region.

To import an SSL/TLS certificate, you must provide the PEM-formatted SSL/TLS certificate
body, its private key, and the certificate chain for the custom domain name.

Each
certificate stored in ACM is identified by its ARN. With certificates issued by ACM, you do
not have to worry about exposing any sensitive certificate details, such as the private
key. To use an AWS managed certificate
for a domain name, you simply reference its ARN.

If your application uses certificate pinning,
sometimes known as SSL pinning, to pin an ACM certificate, the application might not be able to connect to
your domain after AWS renews the certificate. For more information, see [Certificate pinning problems](../../../acm/latest/userguide/troubleshooting-pinning.md) in the
_AWS Certificate Manager User Guide_.

## Wildcard custom domain names

With wildcard custom domain names, you can support an almost infinite number of domain names without exceeding the [default quota](limits.md). For
example, you could give each of your customers their own domain name, `customername.example.com`.

To create a wildcard custom domain name, specify a wildcard
( `*`) as the first subdomain of a custom domain that represents all
possible subdomains of a root domain.

For example, the wildcard custom domain name `*.example.com` results in subdomains such as
`a.example.com`, `b.example.com`, and `c.example.com`. When you create the
wildcard custom domain name, all its subdomains are routed by the routing mode of the wildcard domain name. To route
subdomains to different APIs, you can do either of the following:

- Use routing rules to route incoming requests to `*.example.com` to different target REST APIs
using the `Host` header. For more information, see
[Example 4: Routing rules for wildcard domain names](rest-api-routing-rules-examples.md#rest-api-routing-rules-examples-rule-for-wildcard-domains).

- Create a domain name for any subdomains that you want to route to a different endpoint. In a single AWS account, you can have both `*.example.com` and
`a.example.com`.

You can use the `$context.domainName` and `$context.domainPrefix` context variables to
determine the domain name that a client used to call your API. To learn more about context variables, see [Variables for data transformations for API Gateway](api-gateway-mapping-template-reference.md).

To create a wildcard custom domain name, you must provide a certificate issued by
ACM that has been validated using either the DNS or the email validation
method.

###### Note

You can't create a wildcard custom domain name if a different AWS account has
created a custom domain name that conflicts with the wildcard custom domain name.
For example, if account A has created `a.example.com`, then account B
can't create the wildcard custom domain name `*.example.com`.

If account A and account B share an owner, you can contact the [AWS Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home) to request an
exception.

## Next steps for custom domain names

The following are next steps for custom domain names.

###### Next steps

- To learn how to set your SSL/TLS certificate, see [Get certificates ready in AWS Certificate Manager](how-to-specify-certificate-for-custom-domain-name.md).

- To learn how to create a Regional custom domain name, see [Set up a Regional custom domain name in API Gateway](apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-create.md).

- To learn how to create an edge-optimized custom domain name, see [Set up an edge-optimized custom domain name in API Gateway](how-to-edge-optimized-custom-domain-name.md).

- To learn how to migrate between Regional and edge-optimized custom domain names, see
[Migrate a custom domain name to a different API endpoint type in API Gateway](apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-migrate.md).

- To learn how to connect API stages to a custom domain name, see [Send traffic to your APIs through your custom domain name in API Gateway](rest-api-routing-mode.md).

- To learn how to choose a security policy for your custom domain name, see [Choose a security policy for your custom domain in API Gateway](apigateway-custom-domain-tls-version.md).

- To learn how to turn off the default endpoint for your custom domain name, see [Disable the default endpoint for REST APIs](rest-api-disable-default-endpoint.md).

- To learn how to use Route 53 health checks to control DNS failover from an API Gateway API, see
[Configure custom health checks for DNS failover for an API Gateway API](dns-failover.md).

If this is your first time creating a custom domain name, we recommend that you start with [Get certificates ready in AWS Certificate Manager](how-to-specify-certificate-for-custom-domain-name.md), to specify your certificate, and then [Set up a Regional custom domain name in API Gateway](apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-create.md) to create a Regional custom domain name.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Redeploy a REST API

Get certificates ready in AWS Certificate Manager

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
