# Using Outposts with ElastiCache

You can use AWS Outposts with ElastiCache. Outposts is a fully managed service that extends AWS infrastructure, services, APIs, and tools to customer premises. By providing local access to AWS managed infrastructure, AWS Outposts enables customers to build and run applications on premises using the same programming interfaces as in AWS Regions, while using local compute and storage resources for lower latency and local data processing needs.

An Outpost is a pool of AWS compute and storage capacity deployed at a customer site. AWS operates, monitors, and manages this capacity as part of an AWS Region.
You can create subnets on your Outpost and specify them when you create AWS resources such as ElastiCache clusters.

###### Note

In this version, the following limitations apply:

- ElastiCache for Outposts only supports M5 and R5 node families.

- Multi-AZ (cross Outpost replication is not supported).

- Live migration is not supported.

- Local snapshots are not supported.

- Engine logs and slow logs can't be enabled.

- ElastiCache on Outposts does not support CoIP.

- ElastiCache for Outposts is not supported in the following regions: cn-north-1, cn-northwest-1 and ap-northeast-3.

## Using Outposts with the ElastiCache console

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the ElastiCache console at
    [https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticache/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticache).

2. On the navigation pane, choose either **Valkey caches**, **Redis OSS caches**, or **Memcached caches**.

3. If you chose **Valkey caches**, select **Create Valkey cache**.
    If you chose **Redis OSS caches**, select **Create Redis OSS cache**.
    If you chose **Memcached caches**, select **Create Memcached cache**.

4. Under **Cluster settings**, select **Design your**
**own cache** and **Cluster cache**. Leave
    **Cluster mode** set as **Disabled**. Then
    create a name and optional description for the cache.

5. For location, choose **On premises**.

6. In On-premises section you will see the field **Outpost ID**. Enter the ID for where the cluster will run.

All further settings under **Cluster settings** can stay as default.

7. In **Connectivity**, select **Create a new subnet group** and enter the **VPC ID**. Leave the rest as default, and select **Next**.

### Configure on-premises options

You can select either an available Outpost to add your cluster or, if there are no available Outposts, create a new one using the following steps:

###### Under **On-Premises options**:

1. Under **Valkey settings**, **Redis OSS settings**, or **Memcached settings**, depending on your preferred engine:
1. **Name**:
       Enter a name for the cluster

2. **Description**:
       Enter a description for the cluster.

3. **Engine version compatilbility**:
       Engine version is based on the AWS Outpost region

4. **Port**:
       For Valkey or Redis OSS, accept the default port 6379. For Memcached, accept the default port 11211.
       If you prefer to use a different port, type the port number.

5. **Parameter group**:
       Use the drop-down to select a default or custom parameter group.

6. **Node Type**:
       Available instances are based on Outposts availability. If using Valkey or Redis OSS, Porting Assistant for .NET for Outposts only supports M5 and R5 node families.
       From the drop down list, select **Outposts** and then select an available node type you want to use for this cluster. Then select **Save**.

7. **Number of Replicas**:
       Enter the number of read replicas you want created for this replication group.
       You must have at least one and no more than five read replicas. The default value is 2.

      The autogenerated names of the read replicas follow the same pattern as that of the primary cluster's name,
       with a dash and sequential three-digit number added to the end, beginning with `-002`.
       For example, if your replication group is named `MyGroup`,
       then the names of the secondaries would be `MyGroup-002`, `MyGroup-003`,
       `MyGroup-004`, `MyGroup-005`, `MyGroup-006`.
2. Under **Connectivity**:
1. **Subnet Group**: From the list, select **Create new**.

- **Name**: Enter a name for the subnet group

- **Description**: Enter a description for the subnet group

- **VPC ID**: The VPC ID should match the Outpost VPC. If you select a VPC that has no subnet IDs
on the Outposts, the list will return empty.

- **Availability Zone or Outpost**: Select the Outpost you are using.

- **Subnet ID**: Select a subnet ID that is available for the Outpost. If there are no subnet IDs available,
you need to create them. For more information, see [Create a Subnet](../../../outposts/latest/userguide/launch-instance.md#create-subnet).

2. Select **Create**.

### Viewing Outpost cluster details

On the list page, select a cluster that belongs to an AWS Outpost and note the following when viewing the **Cluster details**:

- **Availability Zone**: This will represent the Outpost, using an ARN (Amazon Resource Name) and the AWS Resource Number.

- **Outpost name**: The name of the AWS Outpost.

## Using Outposts with the AWS CLI

You can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) to control multiple AWS services from the command line
and automate them through scripts. You can use the AWS CLI for ad hoc (one-time)
operations.

### Downloading and configuring the AWS CLI

The AWS CLI runs on Windows, macOS, or Linux. Use the following procedure to download and configure it.

###### To download, install, and configure the CLI

1. Download the AWS CLI on the [AWS Command Line\
    Interface](http://aws.amazon.com/cli) webpage.

2. Follow the instructions for [Installing the AWS CLI](../../../cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.md)
    and [Configuring the AWS CLI](../../../cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.md)
    in the _AWS Command Line Interface User Guide_.

### Using the AWS CLI with Outposts

Use the following CLI operation to create a cluster that uses Outposts:

- [create-cache-cluster](../commandlinereference/clireference-cmd-createcachecluster.md)

– Using this operation, the `outpost-mode` parameter accepts a value that specifies whether the nodes in the cluster are created in a single Outpost or across multiple Outposts.

###### Note

At this time, only `single-outpost` mode is supported.

```nohighlight

aws elasticache create-cache-cluster \
     --cache-cluster-id cluster id \
     --outpost-mode single-outpost \

```

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Using Local zones with ElastiCache

Working with ElastiCache

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
