# ListTableMetadata

Lists the metadata for the tables in the specified data catalog database.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "CatalogName": "string",
   "DatabaseName": "string",
   "Expression": "string",
   "MaxResults": number,
   "NextToken": "string",
   "WorkGroup": "string"
}
```

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[CatalogName](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

The name of the data catalog for which table metadata should be returned.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 256.

Pattern: `[\u0020-\uD7FF\uE000-\uFFFD\uD800\uDC00-\uDBFF\uDFFF\t]*`

Required: Yes

**[DatabaseName](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

The name of the database for which table metadata should be returned.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 128.

Required: Yes

**[Expression](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

A regex filter that pattern-matches table names. If no expression is supplied,
metadata for all tables are listed.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 0. Maximum length of 256.

Required: No

**[MaxResults](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

Specifies the maximum number of results to return.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 50.

Required: No

**[NextToken](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the NextToken from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

Required: No

**[WorkGroup](#API_ListTableMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

The name of the workgroup for which the metadata is being fetched. Required if
requesting an IAM Identity Center enabled AWS Glue Data Catalog.

Type: String

Pattern: `[a-zA-Z0-9._-]{1,128}`

Required: No

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "NextToken": "string",
   "TableMetadataList": [
      {
         "Columns": [
            {
               "Comment": "string",
               "Name": "string",
               "Type": "string"
            }
         ],
         "CreateTime": number,
         "LastAccessTime": number,
         "Name": "string",
         "Parameters": {
            "string" : "string"
         },
         "PartitionKeys": [
            {
               "Comment": "string",
               "Name": "string",
               "Type": "string"
            }
         ],
         "TableType": "string"
      }
   ]
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[NextToken](#API_ListTableMetadata_ResponseSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the NextToken from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

**[TableMetadataList](#API_ListTableMetadata_ResponseSyntax)**

A list of table metadata.

Type: Array of [TableMetadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/APIReference/API_TableMetadata.html) objects

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**InternalServerException**

Indicates a platform issue, which may be due to a transient condition or
outage.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidRequestException**

Indicates that something is wrong with the input to the request. For example, a
required parameter may be missing or out of range.

**AthenaErrorCode**

The error code returned when the query execution failed to process, or when the
processing request for the named query failed.

HTTP Status Code: 400

**MetadataException**

An exception that Athena received when it called a custom metastore.
Occurs if the error is not caused by user input ( `InvalidRequestException`)
or from the Athena platform ( `InternalServerException`). For
example, if a user-created Lambda function is missing permissions, the
Lambda
`4XX` exception is returned in a `MetadataException`.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/cli2/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/DotNetSDKV4/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for C++](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForCpp/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForGoV2/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForJavaV2/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForJavaScriptV3/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForKotlin/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForPHPV3/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for Python](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/boto3/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/goto/SdkForRubyV3/athena-2017-05-18/ListTableMetadata)

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

ListSessions

ListTagsForResource
