# ListNotebookMetadata

Displays the notebook files for the specified workgroup in paginated format.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "Filters": {
      "Name": "string"
   },
   "MaxResults": number,
   "NextToken": "string",
   "WorkGroup": "string"
}
```

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[Filters](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

Search filter string.

Type: [FilterDefinition](api-filterdefinition.md) object

Required: No

**[MaxResults](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

Specifies the maximum number of results to return.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 50.

Required: No

**[NextToken](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

Required: No

**[WorkGroup](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_RequestSyntax)**

The name of the Spark enabled workgroup to retrieve notebook metadata for.

Type: String

Pattern: `[a-zA-Z0-9._-]{1,128}`

Required: Yes

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "NextToken": "string",
   "NotebookMetadataList": [
      {
         "CreationTime": number,
         "LastModifiedTime": number,
         "Name": "string",
         "NotebookId": "string",
         "Type": "string",
         "WorkGroup": "string"
      }
   ]
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[NextToken](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_ResponseSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

**[NotebookMetadataList](#API_ListNotebookMetadata_ResponseSyntax)**

The list of notebook metadata for the specified workgroup.

Type: Array of [NotebookMetadata](api-notebookmetadata.md) objects

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**InternalServerException**

Indicates a platform issue, which may be due to a transient condition or
outage.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidRequestException**

Indicates that something is wrong with the input to the request. For example, a
required parameter may be missing or out of range.

**AthenaErrorCode**

The error code returned when the query execution failed to process, or when the
processing request for the named query failed.

HTTP Status Code: 400

**TooManyRequestsException**

Indicates that the request was throttled.

**Reason**

The reason for the query throttling, for example, when it exceeds the concurrent query
limit.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebookmetadata.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ListNamedQueries

ListNotebookSessions

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
