# ListSessions

Lists the sessions in a workgroup that are in an active state like
`CREATING`, `CREATED`, `IDLE`, or
`BUSY`. Newer sessions are listed first; older sessions are listed
later.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "MaxResults": number,
   "NextToken": "string",
   "StateFilter": "string",
   "WorkGroup": "string"
}
```

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[MaxResults](#API_ListSessions_RequestSyntax)**

The maximum number of sessions to return.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 100.

Required: No

**[NextToken](#API_ListSessions_RequestSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Maximum length of 2048.

Required: No

**[StateFilter](#API_ListSessions_RequestSyntax)**

A filter for a specific session state. A description of each state follows.

`CREATING` \- The session is being started, including acquiring
resources.

`CREATED` \- The session has been started.

`IDLE` \- The session is able to accept a calculation.

`BUSY` \- The session is processing another task and is unable to accept a
calculation.

`TERMINATING` \- The session is in the process of shutting down.

`TERMINATED` \- The session and its resources are no longer running.

`DEGRADED` \- The session has no healthy coordinators.

`FAILED` \- Due to a failure, the session and its resources are no longer
running.

Type: String

Valid Values: `CREATING | CREATED | IDLE | BUSY | TERMINATING | TERMINATED | DEGRADED | FAILED`

Required: No

**[WorkGroup](#API_ListSessions_RequestSyntax)**

The workgroup to which the session belongs.

Type: String

Pattern: `[a-zA-Z0-9._-]{1,128}`

Required: Yes

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "NextToken": "string",
   "Sessions": [
      {
         "Description": "string",
         "EngineVersion": {
            "EffectiveEngineVersion": "string",
            "SelectedEngineVersion": "string"
         },
         "NotebookVersion": "string",
         "SessionId": "string",
         "Status": {
            "EndDateTime": number,
            "IdleSinceDateTime": number,
            "LastModifiedDateTime": number,
            "StartDateTime": number,
            "State": "string",
            "StateChangeReason": "string"
         }
      }
   ]
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[NextToken](#API_ListSessions_ResponseSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Maximum length of 2048.

**[Sessions](#API_ListSessions_ResponseSyntax)**

A list of sessions.

Type: Array of [SessionSummary](api-sessionsummary.md) objects

Array Members: Minimum number of 0 items. Maximum number of 100 items.

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**InternalServerException**

Indicates a platform issue, which may be due to a transient condition or
outage.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidRequestException**

Indicates that something is wrong with the input to the request. For example, a
required parameter may be missing or out of range.

**AthenaErrorCode**

The error code returned when the query execution failed to process, or when the
processing request for the named query failed.

HTTP Status Code: 400

**ResourceNotFoundException**

A resource, such as a workgroup, was not found.

**ResourceName**

The name of the Amazon resource.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/athena-2017-05-18/listsessions.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ListQueryExecutions

ListTableMetadata

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
