# ListNotebookSessions

Lists, in descending order, the sessions that have been created in a notebook that are
in an active state like `CREATING`, `CREATED`, `IDLE`
or `BUSY`. Newer sessions are listed first; older sessions are listed
later.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "MaxResults": number,
   "NextToken": "string",
   "NotebookId": "string"
}
```

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[MaxResults](#API_ListNotebookSessions_RequestSyntax)**

The maximum number of notebook sessions to return.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 100.

Required: No

**[NextToken](#API_ListNotebookSessions_RequestSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

Required: No

**[NotebookId](#API_ListNotebookSessions_RequestSyntax)**

The ID of the notebook to list sessions for.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 36.

Pattern: `[a-f0-9]{8}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{4}-[a-f0-9]{12}`

Required: Yes

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "NextToken": "string",
   "NotebookSessionsList": [
      {
         "CreationTime": number,
         "SessionId": "string"
      }
   ]
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[NextToken](#API_ListNotebookSessions_ResponseSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

**[NotebookSessionsList](#API_ListNotebookSessions_ResponseSyntax)**

A list of the sessions belonging to the notebook.

Type: Array of [NotebookSessionSummary](api-notebooksessionsummary.md) objects

Array Members: Minimum number of 0 items. Maximum number of 10 items.

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**InternalServerException**

Indicates a platform issue, which may be due to a transient condition or
outage.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidRequestException**

Indicates that something is wrong with the input to the request. For example, a
required parameter may be missing or out of range.

**AthenaErrorCode**

The error code returned when the query execution failed to process, or when the
processing request for the named query failed.

HTTP Status Code: 400

**ResourceNotFoundException**

A resource, such as a workgroup, was not found.

**ResourceName**

The name of the Amazon resource.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/athena-2017-05-18/listnotebooksessions.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

ListNotebookMetadata

ListPreparedStatements
