# GetQueryResults

Streams the results of a single query execution specified by
`QueryExecutionId` from the Athena query results location in
Amazon S3. For more information, see [Working with query results, recent queries, and\
output files](../../../../services/athena/latest/ug/querying.md) in the _Amazon Athena User Guide_.
This request does not execute the query but returns results. Use [StartQueryExecution](api-startqueryexecution.md) to run a query.

To stream query results successfully, the IAM principal with permission to call
`GetQueryResults` also must have permissions to the Amazon S3
`GetObject` action for the Athena query results location.

###### Important

IAM principals with permission to the Amazon S3
`GetObject` action for the query results location are able to retrieve
query results from Amazon S3 even if permission to the
`GetQueryResults` action is denied. To restrict user or role access,
ensure that Amazon S3 permissions to the Athena query location
are denied.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "MaxResults": number,
   "NextToken": "string",
   "QueryExecutionId": "string",
   "QueryResultType": "string"
}
```

## Request Parameters

For information about the parameters that are common to all actions, see [Common Parameters](commonparameters.md).

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

**[MaxResults](#API_GetQueryResults_RequestSyntax)**

The maximum number of results (rows) to return in this request.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 1000.

Required: No

**[NextToken](#API_GetQueryResults_RequestSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

Required: No

**[QueryExecutionId](#API_GetQueryResults_RequestSyntax)**

The unique ID of the query execution.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 128.

Pattern: `\S+`

Required: Yes

**[QueryResultType](#API_GetQueryResults_RequestSyntax)**

When you set this to `DATA_ROWS` or empty, `GetQueryResults`
returns the query results in rows. If set to `DATA_MANIFEST`, it returns the
manifest file in rows. Only the query types `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`,
`UNLOAD`, and `INSERT` can generate a manifest file. If you
use `DATA_MANIFEST` for other query types, the query will fail.

Type: String

Valid Values: `DATA_MANIFEST | DATA_ROWS`

Required: No

## Response Syntax

```nohighlight

{
   "NextToken": "string",
   "ResultSet": {
      "ResultSetMetadata": {
         "ColumnInfo": [
            {
               "CaseSensitive": boolean,
               "CatalogName": "string",
               "Label": "string",
               "Name": "string",
               "Nullable": "string",
               "Precision": number,
               "Scale": number,
               "SchemaName": "string",
               "TableName": "string",
               "Type": "string"
            }
         ]
      },
      "Rows": [
         {
            "Data": [
               {
                  "VarCharValue": "string"
               }
            ]
         }
      ]
   },
   "UpdateCount": number
}
```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response.

The following data is returned in JSON format by the service.

**[NextToken](#API_GetQueryResults_ResponseSyntax)**

A token generated by the Athena service that specifies where to continue
pagination if a previous request was truncated. To obtain the next set of pages, pass in
the `NextToken` from the response object of the previous page call.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 1024.

**[ResultSet](#API_GetQueryResults_ResponseSyntax)**

The results of the query execution.

Type: [ResultSet](api-resultset.md) object

**[UpdateCount](#API_GetQueryResults_ResponseSyntax)**

The number of rows inserted with a `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`, `INSERT
                INTO`, or `UPDATE` statement.

Type: Long

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**InternalServerException**

Indicates a platform issue, which may be due to a transient condition or
outage.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**InvalidRequestException**

Indicates that something is wrong with the input to the request. For example, a
required parameter may be missing or out of range.

**AthenaErrorCode**

The error code returned when the query execution failed to process, or when the
processing request for the named query failed.

HTTP Status Code: 400

**TooManyRequestsException**

Indicates that the request was throttled.

**Reason**

The reason for the query throttling, for example, when it exceeds the concurrent query
limit.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/athena-2017-05-18/getqueryresults.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

GetQueryExecution

GetQueryRuntimeStatistics
