# Monitoring and tuning the replication process

We strongly recommend that you routinely monitor your RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance and
read replicas. You need to ensure that your read replicas are keeping up with changes on
the source DB instance. Amazon RDS transparently recovers your read replicas when
interruptions to the replication process occur. However, it's best to avoid needing
to recover at all. Recovering using replication slots is faster than using the Amazon S3
archive, but any recovery process can affect read performance.

To determine how well your read replicas are keeping up with the source DB instance,
you can do the following:

- Check the amount of `ReplicaLag` between
source DB instance and replicas. _Replica lag_ is the amount of time, in seconds, that a read
replica lags behind its source DB instance. This metric reports the result of
the following query.

```nohighlight

SELECT extract(epoch from now() - pg_last_xact_replay_timestamp()) AS "ReplicaLag";

```

Replica lag is an indication of how well a read replica is keeping up with the
source DB instance. It's the amount of latency between the source DB
instance and a specific read instance. A high value for replica lag can indicate
a mismatch between the DB instance classes or storage types (or both) used by
the source DB instance and its read replicas. The DB instance class and storage
types for DB source instance and all read replicas should be the same.

Replica lag can also be the result of intermittent connection issues. You can
monitor replication lag in Amazon CloudWatch by viewing the Amazon RDS `ReplicaLag`
metric. To learn more about `ReplicaLag` and other metrics for Amazon RDS,
see [Amazon CloudWatch metrics for Amazon RDS](rds-metrics.md).

- Check the PostgreSQL log for information you can use to
adjust your settings. At every checkpoint, the PostgreSQL log
captures the number of recycled transaction log files, as shown in the following
example.

```nohighlight

2014-11-07 19:59:35 UTC::@:[26820]:LOG:  checkpoint complete: wrote 376 buffers (0.2%);
0 transaction log file(s) added, 0 removed, 1 recycled; write=35.681 s, sync=0.013 s, total=35.703 s;
sync files=10, longest=0.013 s, average=0.001 s
```

You can use this information to figure out how many transaction files are
being recycled in a given time period. You can then change the setting for
`wal_keep_segments` if necessary. For example, suppose that the
PostgreSQL log at `checkpoint complete` shows `35
                          recycled` for a 5-minute interval. In this case, the
`wal_keep_segments` default value of 32 isn't sufficient to
keep pace with the streaming activity, so you should increase the value of this
parameter.

- Use Amazon CloudWatch to monitor metrics that can predict
replication issues. Rather than analyzing the PostgreSQL log
directly, you can use Amazon CloudWatch to check metrics that have been collected. For
example, you can check the value of the `TransactionLogsGeneration`
metric to see how much WAL data is being generated by the source DB instance. In
some cases, the workload on your DB instance might generate a large amount of
WAL data. If so, you might need to change the DB instance class for your source
DB instance and read replicas. Using an instance class with high (10 Gbps)
network performance can reduce replica lag.

## Monitoring replication slots for your RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance

All versions of RDS for PostgreSQL use replication slots for cross-Region read
replicas. RDS for PostgreSQL 14.1 and higher versions use replication slots for in-Region
read replicas. In-region read replicas also use Amazon S3 to archive WAL data. In other
words, if your DB instance and read replicas are running PostgreSQL 14.1 or higher,
replication slots and Amazon S3 archives are both available for recovering the read
replica. Recovering a read replica using its replication slot is faster than
recovering from Amazon S3 archive. So, we recommend that you monitor the replication
slots and related metrics.

You can view the replication slots on your RDS for PostgreSQL DB instances by querying
the `pg_replication_slots` view, as follows.

```nohighlight

postgres=> SELECT * FROM pg_replication_slots;
slot_name                  | plugin | slot_type | datoid | database | temporary | active | active_pid | xmin | catalog_xmin | restart_lsn | confirmed_flush_lsn | wal_status | safe_wal_size | two_phase
---------------------------+--------+-----------+--------+----------+-----------+--------+------------+------+--------------+-------------+---------------------+------------+---------------+-----------
rds_us_west_1_db_555555555 |        | physical  |        |          | f         | t      |      13194 |      |              | 23/D8000060 |                     | reserved   |               | f
(1 row)
```

The `wal_status` of `reserved` value means that the amount
of WAL data held by the slot is within the bounds of the `max_wal_size`
parameter. In other words, the replication slot is properly sized. Other possible
status values are as follows:

- `extended` – The slot exceeds the
`max_wal_size` setting, but the WAL data is retained.

- `unreserved` – The slot no longer has the all required
WAL data. Some of it will be removed at the next checkpoint.

- `lost` – Some required WAL data has been removed. The
slot is no longer usable.

The `unreserved` and `lost` states of the
`wal_status` are seen only when `max_slot_wal_keep_size`
is non-negative.

The `pg_replication_slots` view shows you the current state of your
replication slots. To assess the performance of your replication slots, you can use
Amazon CloudWatch and monitor the following metrics:

- `OldestReplicationSlotLag`
– Shows the amount of Write-Ahead Log (WAL) data on the source that
hasn't been consumed by the most lagging replica.

- `TransactionLogsDiskUsage`
– Shows how much storage is being used for WAL data. When a read
replica lags significantly, the value of this metric can increase
substantially.

To learn more about using Amazon CloudWatch and its metrics for RDS for PostgreSQL, see [Monitoring Amazon RDS metrics with Amazon CloudWatch](monitoring-cloudwatch.md). For
more information about monitoring streaming replication on your RDS for PostgreSQL DB
instances, see [Best\
practices for Amazon RDS PostgreSQL replication](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/best-practices-for-amazon-rds-postgresql-replication) on the _AWS_
_Database Blog_.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

How
replication works for different RDS for PostgreSQL versions

Configuring delayed replication with
RDS for PostgreSQL

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
