This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::RDS::EventSubscription

The `AWS::RDS::EventSubscription` resource allows you to receive
notifications for Amazon Relational Database Service events through the Amazon Simple
Notification Service (Amazon SNS). For more information, see [Using Amazon RDS Event\
Notification](../../../amazonrds/latest/userguide/user-events.md) in the _Amazon RDS User Guide_.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::RDS::EventSubscription",
  "Properties" : {
      "Enabled" : Boolean,
      "EventCategories" : [ String, ... ],
      "SnsTopicArn" : String,
      "SourceIds" : [ String, ... ],
      "SourceType" : String,
      "SubscriptionName" : String,
      "Tags" : [ Tag, ... ]
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::RDS::EventSubscription
Properties:
  Enabled: Boolean
  EventCategories:
    - String
  SnsTopicArn: String
  SourceIds:
    - String
  SourceType: String
  SubscriptionName: String
  Tags:
    - Tag

```

## Properties

`Enabled`

Specifies whether to activate the subscription. If the event notification subscription isn't activated, the subscription is created but not active.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Boolean

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`EventCategories`

A list of event categories for a particular source type ( `SourceType`)
that you want to subscribe to. You can see a list of the categories for a given source type in the "Amazon RDS event categories and event messages" section of the [_Amazon RDS User Guide_](../../../amazonrds/latest/userguide/user-events-messages.md) or the
[_Amazon Aurora User Guide_](../../../amazonrds/latest/aurorauserguide/user-events-messages.md).
You can also see this list by using the `DescribeEventCategories` operation.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SnsTopicArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SNS topic created for event notification. SNS
automatically creates the ARN when you create a topic and subscribe to it.

###### Note

RDS doesn't support FIFO (first in, first out) topics. For more information, see
[Message\
ordering and deduplication (FIFO topics)](../../../sns/latest/dg/sns-fifo-topics.md) in the _Amazon Simple_
_Notification Service Developer Guide_.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`SourceIds`

The list of identifiers of the event sources for which events are returned. If not specified, then all sources are included in the response.
An identifier must begin with a letter and must contain only ASCII letters, digits, and hyphens. It can't end with a hyphen or contain two consecutive hyphens.

Constraints:

- If `SourceIds` are supplied, `SourceType` must also be provided.

- If the source type is a DB instance, a `DBInstanceIdentifier` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is a DB cluster, a `DBClusterIdentifier` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is a DB parameter group, a `DBParameterGroupName` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is a DB security group, a `DBSecurityGroupName` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is a DB snapshot, a `DBSnapshotIdentifier` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is a DB cluster snapshot, a `DBClusterSnapshotIdentifier` value must be supplied.

- If the source type is an RDS Proxy, a `DBProxyName` value must be supplied.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SourceType`

The type of source that is generating the events. For example, if you want to be
notified of events generated by a DB instance, you set this parameter to
`db-instance`. For RDS Proxy events, specify `db-proxy`. If this value isn't specified, all events are
returned.

Valid Values: ` db-instance | db-cluster | db-parameter-group | db-security-group | db-snapshot | db-cluster-snapshot | db-proxy | zero-etl | custom-engine-version | blue-green-deployment `

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`SubscriptionName`

The name of the subscription.

Constraints: The name must be less than 255 characters.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Maximum_: `255`

_Update requires_: [Replacement](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-replacement)

`Tags`

An optional array of key-value pairs to apply to this subscription.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Tag](aws-properties-rds-eventsubscription-tag.md)

_Maximum_: `50`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns the name of the RDS event subscription.

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

## Examples

### Create an event subscription

The following example creates an event subscription for an existing database
instance `db-instance-1` and a database with the logical ID
`myDBInstance`, which is declared elsewhere in the same template.

#### JSON

```json

{
    "myEventSubscription": {
        "Type": "AWS::RDS::EventSubscription",
        "Properties": {
            "EventCategories": [
                "configuration change",
                "failure",
                "deletion"
            ],
            "SnsTopicArn": "arn:aws:sns:us-west-2:123456789012:example-topic",
            "SourceIds": [
                "db-instance-1",
                {
                    "Ref": "myDBInstance"
                }
            ],
            "SourceType": "db-instance",
            "Enabled": false
        }
    }
}
```

#### YAML

```yaml

---
myEventSubscription:
  Type: 'AWS::RDS::EventSubscription'
  Properties:
    EventCategories:
      - configuration change
      - failure
      - deletion
    SnsTopicArn: 'arn:aws:sns:us-west-2:123456789012:example-topic'
    SourceIds:
      - db-instance-1
      - !Ref myDBInstance
    SourceType: db-instance
    Enabled: false
```

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Tag

Tag

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
