This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::AppSync::Api

The `AWS::AppSync::Api` resource creates an AWS AppSync API that
you can use for an AWS AppSync API with your preferred configuration, such as an
Event API that provides real-time message publishing and message subscriptions over
WebSockets.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "Type" : "AWS::AppSync::Api",
  "Properties" : {
      "EventConfig" : EventConfig,
      "Name" : String,
      "OwnerContact" : String,
      "Tags" : [ Tag, ... ]
    }
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

Type: AWS::AppSync::Api
Properties:
  EventConfig:
    EventConfig
  Name: String
  OwnerContact: String
  Tags:
    - Tag

```

## Properties

`EventConfig`

Describes the authorization configuration for connections, message publishing, message
subscriptions, and logging for an Event API.

_Required_: No

_Type_: [EventConfig](aws-properties-appsync-api-eventconfig.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Name`

The name of the `Api`.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[A-Za-z0-9_\-\ ]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `50`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`OwnerContact`

The owner contact information for an API resource.

This field accepts any string input with a length of 0 - 256 characters.

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Pattern_: `[A-Za-z0-9_\-\ \.]+`

_Minimum_: `1`

_Maximum_: `250`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Tags`

A set of tags (key-value pairs) for this API.

_Required_: No

_Type_: Array of [Tag](aws-properties-appsync-api-tag.md)

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## Return values

### Ref

When you pass the logical ID of this resource to the intrinsic `Ref` function, `Ref` returns The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS AppSync Api. For example:

`arn:aws:appsync:us-east-1:123456789012:apis/eventapiId`

For more information about using the `Ref` function, see [`Ref`](intrinsic-function-reference-ref.md).

### Fn::GetAtt

The `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. The following are the available attributes and sample return values.

For more information about using the `Fn::GetAtt` intrinsic function, see [`Fn::GetAtt`](intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.md).

`ApiArn`

The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS AppSync Api.

`ApiId`

The unique identifier for the AWS AppSync Api generated by the service.

`Dns.Http`

The domain name of the Api's HTTP endpoint.

`Dns.Realtime`

The domain name of the Api's real-time endpoint.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

AWS AppSync

AuthMode

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
