This is the new _CloudFormation Template Reference Guide_.
Please update your bookmarks and links. For help getting started with CloudFormation, see the
[AWS CloudFormation User Guide](../userguide/welcome.md).

# AWS::CodeBuild::Project CloudWatchLogsConfig

`CloudWatchLogs` is a property of the
[AWS CodeBuild Project LogsConfig](../userguide/aws-properties-codebuild-project-logsconfig.md) property type that specifies settings for CloudWatch logs generated by an AWS CodeBuild build.

## Syntax

To declare this entity in your CloudFormation template, use the following syntax:

### JSON

```json

{
  "GroupName" : String,
  "Status" : String,
  "StreamName" : String
}

```

### YAML

```yaml

  GroupName: String
  Status: String
  StreamName: String

```

## Properties

`GroupName`

The group name of the logs in CloudWatch Logs. For more information, see [Working\
with Log Groups and Log Streams](../../../amazoncloudwatch/latest/logs/working-with-log-groups-and-streams.md).

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`Status`

The current status of the logs in CloudWatch Logs for a build project. Valid values are:

- `ENABLED`: CloudWatch Logs are enabled for this build project.

- `DISABLED`: CloudWatch Logs are not enabled for this build project.

_Required_: Yes

_Type_: String

_Allowed values_: `ENABLED | DISABLED`

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

`StreamName`

The prefix of the stream name of the CloudWatch Logs. For more information, see [Working\
with Log Groups and Log Streams](../../../amazoncloudwatch/latest/logs/working-with-log-groups-and-streams.md).

_Required_: No

_Type_: String

_Update requires_: [No interruption](../userguide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-update-behaviors.md#update-no-interrupt)

## See also

- [CloudWatchLogsConfig](../../../../reference/codebuild/latest/apireference/api-cloudwatchlogsconfig.md) in the _AWS CodeBuild API Reference_

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

BuildStatusConfig

Environment

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
