# Generate the Java SDK of an API in API Gateway

The following procedure shows how to generate the Java SDK of an API in API Gateway.

###### To generate the Java SDK of an API in API Gateway

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose a REST API.

3. Choose **Stages**.

4. In the **Stages** pane, select the name of the stage.

5. Open the **Stage actions** menu, and then choose **Generate SDK**.

6. For
    **Platform**, choose the **Java** platform and do
    the following:
1. For **Service Name**, specify the name of your
       SDK. For example, `SimpleCalcSdk`.
       This becomes the name of your SDK client class. The name corresponds
       to the `<name>` tag under `<project>` in the pom.xml file,
       which is in the SDK's project folder. Do not include hyphens.

2. For **Java Package Name**, specify a package
       name for your SDK. For example, `examples.aws.apig.simpleCalc.sdk`. This package name is
       used as the namespace of your SDK library. Do not include
       hyphens.

3. For **Java Build System**, enter `maven` or `gradle` to specify the build system.

4. For **Java Group Id**, enter a group identifier
       for your SDK project. For example, enter `my-apig-api-examples`. This identifier corresponds to the
       `<groupId>` tag under `<project>` in the
       `pom.xml` file, which is in the SDK's project
       folder.

5. For **Java Artifact Id**, enter an artifact
       identifier for your SDK project. For example, enter `simple-calc-sdk`. This identifier
       corresponds to the `<artifactId>` tag under `<project>` in the `pom.xml`
       file, which is in the SDK's project folder.

6. For **Java Artifact Version**, enter a version
       identifier string. For example, `1.0.0`. This version identifier corresponds to the `<version>` tag under `<project>` in the
       `pom.xml` file, which is in the SDK's project
       folder.

7. For **Source Code License Text**, enter the
       license text of your source code, if any.
7. Choose **Generate SDK**, and then follow the on-screen
    directions to download the SDK generated by API Gateway.

Follow the instructions in [Use a Java SDK generated by API Gateway for a REST API](how-to-call-apigateway-generated-java-sdk.md) to use the
generated SDK.

Every time you update an API, you must redeploy the API and regenerate the SDK to
have the updates included.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Simple calculator API OpenAPI definition

Generate the Android SDK of an API in API Gateway

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
