# Generate the iOS SDK of an API in API Gateway

The following procedure shows how to generate the iOS SDK of an API in API Gateway.

###### To generate the iOS SDK of an API in API Gateway

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose a REST API.

3. Choose **Stages**.

4. In the **Stages** pane, select the name of the stage.

5. Open the **Stage actions** menu, and then choose **Generate SDK**.

6. For
    **Platform**, choose the **iOS (Objective-C) or**
**iOS (Swift)** platform and do the following:
1. Type a unique prefix in the **Prefix**
       box.

      The effect of prefix is as follows: if you assign, for example,
       `SIMPLE_CALC` as the prefix for the SDK of the [SimpleCalc](../../../../services/apigateway/latest/developerguide/simple-calc-lambda-api.md) API with
       `input`, `output`, and `result`
       models, the generated SDK will contain the
       `SIMPLE_CALCSimpleCalcClient` class that encapsulates
       the API, including the method requests/responses. In addition, the
       generated SDK will contain the `SIMPLE_CALCinput`,
       `SIMPLE_CALCoutput`, and
       `SIMPLE_CALCresult` classes to represent the input,
       output, and results, respectively, to represent the request input
       and response output. For more information, see [Use iOS SDK generated by API Gateway for a REST API in Objective-C or Swift](how-to-generate-sdk-ios.md).
7. Choose **Generate SDK**, and then follow the on-screen
    directions to download the SDK generated by API Gateway.

Follow the instructions in [Use iOS SDK generated by API Gateway for a REST API in Objective-C or Swift](how-to-generate-sdk-ios.md) to use the generated
SDK.

Every time you update an API, you must redeploy the API and regenerate the SDK to
have the updates included.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Generate the Android SDK of an API in API Gateway

Generate the JavaScript SDK of a REST API in API Gateway

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
