# Generate the Android SDK of an API in API Gateway

The following procedure shows how to generate the Android SDK of an API in API Gateway.

###### To generate the Android SDK of an API in API Gateway

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose a REST API.

3. Choose **Stages**.

4. In the **Stages** pane, select the name of the stage.

5. Open the **Stage actions** menu, and then choose **Generate SDK**.

6. For
    **Platform**, choose the Android platform and do the following:
1. For **Group ID**, enter the unique identifier
       for the corresponding project. This is used in the
       `pom.xml` file (for example,
       `com.mycompany`).

2. For **Invoker package**, enter the namespace for
       the generated client classes (for example,
       `com.mycompany.clientsdk`).

3. For **Artifact ID**, enter the name of the
       compiled .jar file without the version. This is used in the
       `pom.xml` file (for example,
       `aws-apigateway-api-sdk`).

4. For **Artifact version**, enter the artifact
       version number for the generated client. This is used in the
       `pom.xml` file and should follow a
       `major`. `minor`. `patch`
       pattern (for example, `1.0.0`).
7. Choose **Generate SDK**, and then follow the on-screen
    directions to download the SDK generated by API Gateway.

Follow the instructions in [Use an Android SDK generated by API Gateway for a REST API](how-to-generate-sdk-android.md) to use the generated SDK.

Every time you update an API, you must redeploy the API and regenerate the SDK to
have the updates included.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Generate the Java SDK of an API in API Gateway

Generate the iOS SDK of an API in API Gateway

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
