# Generate the Ruby SDK of an API in API Gateway

The following procedure shows how to generate the Ruby SDK of an API in API Gateway.

###### To generate the Ruby SDK of an API in API Gateway

1. Sign in to the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway).

2. Choose a REST API.

3. Choose **Stages**.

4. In the **Stages** pane, select the name of the stage.

5. Open the **Stage actions** menu, and then choose **Generate SDK**.

6. For
    **Platform**, choose the **Ruby** platform and do the following:
1. For **Service Name**, specify the name of your
       SDK. For example, `SimpleCalc`. This
       is used to generate the Ruby Gem namespace of your API. The name
       must be all letters, ( `a-zA-Z`), without any other
       special characters or numbers.

2. For **Ruby Gem Name**, specify the name of the
       Ruby Gem to contain the generated SDK source code for your API. By
       default, it is the lower-cased service name plus the
       `-sdk` suffix—for example,
       `simplecalc-sdk`.

3. For **Ruby Gem Version**, specify a version
       number for the generated Ruby Gem. By default, it is set to
       `1.0.0`.
7. Choose **Generate SDK**, and then follow the on-screen
    directions to download the SDK generated by API Gateway.

Follow the instructions in [Use a Ruby SDK generated by API Gateway for a REST API](how-to-call-sdk-ruby.md) to use the generated SDK.

Every time you update an API, you must redeploy the API and regenerate the SDK to
have the updates included.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Generate the JavaScript SDK of a REST API in API Gateway

Generate SDKs for an API using AWS CLI commands in API Gateway

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
