# Canaries and X-Ray tracing

You can choose to enable active AWS X-Ray tracing on canaries that use the `
      syn-nodejs-2.0` or later runtime. With tracing enabled, traces are sent for all calls
made by the canary that use the browser, the AWS SDK, or HTTP or HTTPS modules. Canaries
with tracing enabled appear on the [X-Ray Trace Map](../../../xray/latest/devguide/xray-console-servicemap.md), and within [Application Signals](cloudwatch-application-monitoring-sections.md) after you
have enabled it for your application.

###### Note

Activating X-Ray tracing on canaries is not yet supported in Asia Pacific (Jakarta).

X-Ray tracing is not supported with Firefox browser canaries.

When a canary appears on the X-Ray trace map, it appears as a new client node type. You
can hover on a canary node to see data about latency, requests, and faults. You can also
choose the canary node to see more data at the bottom of the page. From this area of the page,
you can choose **View in Synthetics** to jump to the CloudWatch Synthetics console
for more details about the canary, or choose **View Traces** to see more
details about the traces from this canary's runs.

A canary with tracing enabled also has a **Tracing** tab in its details
page, with details about traces and segments from the canary's runs.

Enabling tracing increases canary run time by 2.5% to 7%.

A canary with tracing enabled must use a role with the following permissions. If
you use the console to create the role when you create the canary, it is given these
permissions.

JSON

```json

{
    "Version":"2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Sid230934",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "xray:PutTraceSegments"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}

```

Traces generated by canaries incur charges. For more information about X-Ray pricing, see [AWS X-Ray Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/xray/pricing).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Sample code for canary scripts

Running a canary on a VPC

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
