# Creating a CloudWatch RUM app monitor for a web application

To start using CloudWatch RUM with your application, you create an _app_
_monitor_. When the app monitor is created, RUM generates a code
snippet for you to paste into your application. The snippet pulls in the RUM client
code. The RUM client captures data from your application's user sessions and sends
it to RUM.

## To create an app monitor for a web platform

01. Open the CloudWatch console at
     [https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch).

02. In the navigation pane, choose **Application**
    **Signals**, **RUM**.

03. Choose **Add app monitor**.

04. For **App monitor name**, enter a name to be used to
     identify this app monitor within the CloudWatch RUM console.

05. Select **Web** as the platform.

06. For **Application domain list**, enter the registered
     domain names where your application has administrative authority. You
     can also use a wildcard character `*` to allow any sub-domain
     or top-level domains (for example, \*.amazon.com, amazon.\*,
     \*.amazon.\*).

07. For **Configure RUM data collection**, specify
     whether you want the app monitor to collect each of the
     following:

- **Performance telemetry** – Collects
information about page load and resource load times

- **JavaScript errors** – Collects
information about unhandled JavaScript errors raised by your
application

You can select **Unminify JavaScript error stack**
**traces** to debug unminified JavaScript errors. To
use this feature, upload your source map files to an Amazon S3 bucket
or folder and provide the Amazon S3 URI. Once enabled, RUM will use
these source maps and enrich JavaScript error events by adding
the unminified stack trace. Note that after enabling, this
feature only processes new JavaScript error events and cannot be
used on previously collected data. For more information, see
[Enabling unminification of JavaScript error stack traces](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-JavaScriptStackTraceSourceMaps.html).

- **HTTP errors** – Collects information
about HTTP errors thrown by your application

Selecting these options provides more information about your
application, but also generates more CloudWatch RUM events and thus incurs
more charges.

If you don't select any of these, the app monitor still collects
session start events and page IDs so that you can see how many users are
using your application, including breakdowns by operating system type
and version, browser type and version, device type, and location.

08. Select **Check this option to allow the CloudWatch RUM Web Client to**
    **set cookies** if you want to be able to collect user IDs
     and session IDs from sampled user sessions. The user IDs are randomly
     generated by RUM. For more information, see [CloudWatch RUM web client cookies (or similar technologies)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-privacy.html#CloudWatch-RUM-cookies).

09. For **Session samples**, enter the percentage of user
     sessions that will be used to gather RUM data. The default is 100%.
     Reducing this number gives you less data, but reduces your charges. For
     more information about RUM pricing, see [RUM\
     pricing](cloudwatch-rum.md#RUMpricing).

10. End user data that you collect for CloudWatch RUM is retained for 30 days
     and then deleted. If you want to keep copies of RUM events in CloudWatch Logs and
     configure how long to retain these copies, choose **Check this**
    **option to store your application telemetry data in your CloudWatch Logs**
    **account** under **Data storage**. By
     default, the CloudWatch Logs log group retains the data for 30 days. You can
     adjust the retention period in the CloudWatch Logs console.

11. (Optional) Choose to add a resource-based policy to your app monitor
     to control who can send `PutRumEvents` requests to your app
     monitor. If you choose **Create public policy**, a
     resource policy will be attached to your app monitor that enables anyone
     to send `PutRumEvents` requests to your app monitor. For more
     information about this method, see [Using resource-based policies with CloudWatch RUM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-resource-policies.html).

12. If you attached a resource-based policy in the previous step, then you
     don't need to sign requests to CloudWatch RUM with AWS credentials, and you
     can skip setting up authorization. Otherwise, for
     **Authorization**, specify whether to use a new or
     existing Amazon Cognito identity pool or use a different identity
     provider. Creating a new identity pool is the simplest option that
     requires no other setup steps. For more information, see see [Authorize your web application to send data to AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-get-started-authorization.html).

    Creating a new Amazon Cognito identity pool requires administrative
     permissions. For more information, see [IAM policies to use CloudWatch RUM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-permissions.html).

13. (Optional) By default, when you add the RUM code snippet to your
     application, the web client injects the JavaScript tag to monitor usage
     into the HTML code of all pages of your application. To change this,
     choose **Configure pages** and then choose either
     **Include only these pages** or **Exclude**
    **these pages**. Then, specify the pages to include or
     exclude. To specify a page to include or exclude, enter its complete
     URLs. To specify additional pages, choose **Add**
    **URL**.

14. To enable AWS X-Ray tracing of the user sessions that are sampled by
     the app monitor, choose **Active tracing** and select
     **Trace my service with AWS X-Ray.**

    If you select this, `XMLHttpRequest` and `fetch`
     requests made during user sessions sampled by the app monitor are
     traced. You can then see traces and segments from these user sessions in
     the RUM dashboard, and the X-Ray trace map and trace details pages.
     These user sessions will also show up as client pages in [Application\
     Signals](cloudwatch-application-monitoring-sections.md) after you have enabled it for your
     application.

    By making additional configuration changes to the CloudWatch RUM web client,
     you can add an X-Ray trace header to HTTP requests to enable end-to-end
     tracing of user sessions through to downstream AWS managed services.
     For more information, see [Enabling X-Ray end-to-end tracing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-RUM-modify-snippet.html#CloudWatch-RUM-xraytraceheader).

15. (Optional) To add tags to the app monitor, choose
     **Tags**, **Add new tag**.

    Then, for **Key**, enter a name for the tag. You can
     add an optional value for the tag in **Value**.

    To add another tag, choose **Add new tag**
     again.

    For more information, see [Tagging AWS\
     Resources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws_tagging.html).

16. Choose **Add app monitor**.

17. In the **Sample code** section, you can copy the code
     snippet to use to add to your application. We recommend that you choose
     **JavaScript** or **TypeScript**
     and use NPM to install the CloudWatch RUM web client as a JavaScript
     module.

    Alternatively, you can choose **HTML** to use a
     content delivery network (CDN) to install the CloudWatch RUM web client. The
     disadvantage of using a CDN is that the web client is often blocked by
     ad blockers.

18. Choose **Copy** or **Download**, and
     then choose **Done**.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Authorize your web application to send data to AWS

Modifying the code snippet (optional)
