# Use Contributor Insights to analyze high-cardinality data

You can use Contributor Insights to analyze log data and create time series that display
contributor data. You can see metrics about the top-N contributors, the total number of unique
contributors, and their usage. This helps you find top talkers and understand who or what is
impacting system performance. For example, you can find bad hosts, identify the heaviest network
users, or find the URLs that generate the most errors.

You can build your rules from scratch, and when you use the AWS Management Console you can also use sample rules that AWS has created.
Rules define the log fields that you want to use to define contributors, such as
`IpAddress`. You can also filter the log data to find and analyze the behavior of
individual contributors.

CloudWatch also provides built-in rules that you can use to
analyze metrics from other AWS services.

All rules analyze incoming data in real time.

If you are signed in to an account that is set up as a monitoring account in CloudWatch cross-account
observability, you can create Contributor Insights rules in that monitoring account
that analyze log groups in source accounts and in the monitoring account. You can
also create a single rule that analyzes log groups in multiple accounts.
For more information, see [CloudWatch cross-account observability](cloudwatch-unified-cross-account.md).

With Contributor Insights, you are charged for each occurrence of a log event that
matches a rule. For more information, see [Amazon CloudWatch Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing).

###### Note

Contributor Insights can only match log entries when the numeric values that the rule references are between -1e9 and 1e9.
If a value in a log entry is outside of this range, Contributor Insights skips that log entry.

###### Topics

- [Create a Contributor Insights rule in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContributorInsights-CreateRule.html)

- [Contributor Insights rule syntax in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContributorInsights-RuleSyntax.html)

- [CloudWatch Contributor Insights rule examples](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContributorInsights-Rule-Examples.html)

- [Viewing Contributor Insights reports in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContributorInsights-ViewReports.html)

- [Graphing metrics generated by rules in CloudWatch](contributorinsights-graphreportdata.md)

- [Using Contributor Insights built-in rules in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContributorInsights-BuiltInRules.html)

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Troubleshooting

Create a Contributor Insights rule in CloudWatch
