# Troubleshooting the CloudWatch agent

You can use the information in this section to troubleshoot issues you might encounter
with the CloudWatch agent.

When encountering issues with the CloudWatch agent, you can use the
`AWSSupport-TroubleshootCloudWatchAgent` automation runbook. The AWS
troubleshooting tool can:

- Verify IAM permissions and instance profiles

- Check agent status and analyze logs

- Test endpoint connectivity

- Automatically collect and upload relevant logs to Amazon S3

For detailed information on the AWS troubleshooting tool, see [Support Automation Workflow (SAW) Runbook - Troubleshoot CloudWatch agent](https://repost.aws/articles/ARDFhNRgSMRcahrIbGJaIC4g/support-automation-workflow-saw-runbook-troubleshoot-amazon-cloudwatch-agent).

###### Topics

- [CloudWatch agent command line parameters](#CloudWatch-Agent-options-help)

- [Install the CloudWatch agent using Run Command fails](#CloudWatch-Agent-installation-fails)

- [The CloudWatch agent won't start](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-cannot-start)

- [Verify that the CloudWatch agent is running](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-verify-running)

- [The CloudWatch agent won't start, and the error mentions an Amazon EC2 Region](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-EC2-region)

- [The CloudWatch agent won't start on Windows Server](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-Windows-start)

- [Where are the metrics?](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-no-metrics)

- [The CloudWatch agent takes a long time to run in a container or logs a hop limit error](#CloudWatch-Agent-container-slow)

- [I updated my agent configuration but don’t see the new metrics or logs in the CloudWatch console](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-update-no-new-metrics)

- [CloudWatch agent files and locations](#CloudWatch-Agent-files-and-locations)

- [Finding information about CloudWatch agent versions](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-agent-version)

- [Logs generated by the CloudWatch agent](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-loginfo)

- [Stopping and restarting the CloudWatch agent](#CloudWatch-Agent-troubleshooting-stopping-restarting)

## CloudWatch agent command line parameters

To see the full list of parameters supported by the CloudWatch agent, enter the following at
the command line at a computer where you have it installed:

```

amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl -help
```

## Install the CloudWatch agent using Run Command fails

To install the CloudWatch agent using Systems Manager Run Command, the SSM Agent on the target server must
be version 2.2.93.0 or later of the SSM Agent agent. If your SSM Agent isn't the correct
version, you might see errors that include the following messages:

```

no latest version found for package AmazonCloudWatchAgent on platform linux
```

```

failed to download installation package reliably
```

For information about updating your SSM Agent version, see [Installing and Configuring SSM Agent](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html) in the
_AWS Systems Manager User Guide_.

## The CloudWatch agent won't start

If the CloudWatch agent fails to start, there might be an issue in your configuration.
Configuration information is logged in the `configuration-validation.log`
file. This file is located in
`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/logs/configuration-validation.log` on Linux
servers and in
`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\Logs\configuration-validation.log`
on servers running Windows Server.

## Verify that the CloudWatch agent is running

You can query the CloudWatch agent to find whether it's running or stopped. You can use
AWS Systems Manager to do this remotely. You can also use the command line, but only to check the
local server.

###### To query the status of the CloudWatch agent using Run Command

1. Open the Systems Manager console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager).

2. In the navigation pane, choose
    **Run Command**.

   -or-

If the AWS Systems Manager home page opens, scroll down and
    choose **Explore Run Command**.

3. Choose **Run command**.

4. In the **Command document** list, choose the button next to
    **AmazonCloudWatch-ManageAgent**.

5. In the **Action** list, choose **status**.

6. For **Optional Configuration Source** choose
    **default** and keep **Optional Configuration**
**Location** blank.

7. In the **Target** area, choose the instance to check.

8. Choose **Run**.

If the agent is running, the output resembles the following.

```json

{
       "status": "running",
       "starttime": "2017-12-12T18:41:18",
       "version": "1.73.4"
}
```

If the agent is stopped, the `"status"` field displays
`"stopped"`.

###### To query the status of the CloudWatch agent locally using the command line

- On a Linux server, enter the following:

```

sudo /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl -m ec2 -a status
```

On a server running Windows Server, enter the following in PowerShell as an
administrator:

```

& $Env:ProgramFiles\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl.ps1 -m ec2 -a status
```

## The CloudWatch agent won't start, and the error mentions an Amazon EC2 Region

If the agent doesn't start and the error message mentions an Amazon EC2 Region endpoint, you
might have configured the agent to need access to the Amazon EC2 endpoint without granting that
access.

For example, if you specify a value for the `append_dimensions` parameter in
the agent configuration file that depends on Amazon EC2 metadata and you use proxies, you must
make sure that the server can access the endpoint for Amazon EC2. For more information about
these endpoints, see [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud\
(Amazon EC2)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#ec2_region) in the _Amazon Web Services General Reference_.

## The CloudWatch agent won't start on Windows Server

On Windows Server, you might see the following error:

```

Start-Service : Service 'Amazon CloudWatch Agent (AmazonCloudWatchAgent)' cannot be started due to the following
error: Cannot start service AmazonCloudWatchAgent on computer '.'.
At C:\Program Files\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl.ps1:113 char:12
+     $svc | Start-Service
+            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : OpenError: (System.ServiceProcess.ServiceController:ServiceController) [Start-Service],
   ServiceCommandException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : CouldNotStartService,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.StartServiceCommand
```

To fix this, first make sure that the server service is running. This error can be seen
if the agent tries to start when the server service isn't running.

If the server service is already running, the following may be the issue. On some
Windows Server installations, the CloudWatch agent takes more than 30 seconds to start. Because
Windows Server, by default, allows only 30 seconds for services to start, this causes the
agent to fail with an error similar to the following:

To fix this issue, increase the service timeout value. For more information, see [A service does not start, and events 7000 and 7011 are logged in the Windows event\
log](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/922918/a-service-does-not-start-and-events-7000-and-7011-are-logged-in-window).

## Where are the metrics?

If the CloudWatch agent has been running but you can't find metrics collected by it in the
AWS Management Console or the AWS CLI, confirm that you're using the correct namespace. By default, the
namespace for metrics collected by the agent is `CWAgent`. You can customize this
namespace using the `namespace` field in the `metrics` section of the
agent configuration file. If you don't see the metrics that you expect, check the
configuration file to confirm the namespace being used.

When you first download the CloudWatch agent package, the agent configuration file is
`amazon-cloudwatch-agent.json`. This file is in the directory where you
ran the configuration wizard, or you might have moved it to a different directory. If you
use the configuration wizard, the agent configuration file output from the wizard is named
`config.json`. For more information about the configuration file,
including the `namespace` field, see [CloudWatch agent configuration file: Metrics section](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Agent-Configuration-File-Details.html#CloudWatch-Agent-Configuration-File-Metricssection).

## The CloudWatch agent takes a long time to run in a container or logs a hop limit error

When you run the CloudWatch agent as a container service and want to add Amazon EC2 metric
dimensions to all metrics collected by the agent, you might see the following errors in
version v1.247354.0 of the agent:

```

2022-06-07T03:36:11Z E! [processors.ec2tagger] ec2tagger: Unable to retrieve Instance Metadata Tags. This plugin must only be used on an EC2 instance.
2022-06-07T03:36:11Z E! [processors.ec2tagger] ec2tagger: Please increase hop limit to 2 by following this document https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-options.html#configuring-IMDS-existing-instances.
2022-06-07T03:36:11Z E! [telegraf] Error running agent: could not initialize processor ec2tagger: EC2MetadataRequestError: failed to get EC2 instance identity document
caused by: EC2MetadataError: failed to make EC2Metadata request
        status code: 401, request id:
caused by:
```

You might see this error if the agent tries to get metadata from IMDSv2 inside a
container without an appropriate hop limit. In versions of the agent earlier than
v1.247354.0, you can experience this issue without seeing the log message.

To solve this, increase the hop limit to 2 by following the instructions in [Configure the instance metadata options](../../../ec2/latest/userguide/configuring-instance-metadata-options.md#configuring-IMDS-existing-instances.).

## I updated my agent configuration but don’t see the new metrics or logs in the CloudWatch console

If you update your CloudWatch agent configuration file, the next time that you start the
agent, you need to use the `fetch-config` option. For example, if you
stored the updated file on the local computer, enter the following command:

```nohighlight

sudo /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl -a fetch-config -s -m ec2 -c file:configuration-file-path
```

## CloudWatch agent files and locations

The following table lists the files installed by and used with the CloudWatch agent, along
with their locations on servers running Linux or Windows Server.

FileLinux locationWindows Server location

The control script that controls starting, stopping, and restarting the
agent.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl`
or `/usr/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl`

`$Env:ProgramFiles\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl.ps1`

The log file the agent writes to. You might need to attach this when
contacting AWS Support.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/logs/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log`
or
`/var/log/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\Logs\amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log`

Agent configuration validation file.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/logs/configuration-validation.log`
or
`/var/log/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/configuration-validation.log`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\Logs\configuration-validation.log`

The JSON file used to configure the agent immediately after the wizard creates
it. For more information, see [Create the CloudWatch agent configuration file](create-cloudwatch-agent-configuration-file.md).

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json`

`$Env:ProgramFiles\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\config.json`

The JSON file used to configure the agent if this configuration file has been
downloaded from Parameter Store.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/etc/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.json`
or
`/etc/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.json`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent.json`

The TOML file used to specify Region and credential information to be used by
the agent, overriding system defaults.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/etc/common-config.toml`
or
`/etc/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/common-config.toml`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\common-config.toml`

The TOML file that contains the converted contents of the JSON configuration
file. The `amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl` script generates this file.
Users should not directly modify this file. It can be useful for verifying that
JSON to TOML translation was successful.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/etc/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.toml`
or
`/etc/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.toml`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent.toml`

The YAML file that contains the converted contents of the JSON configuration
file. The `amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl` script generates this file. You
should not directly modify this file. This file can be useful for verifying that
the JSON to YAML translation was successful.

`/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/etc/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.yaml or
                    /etc/amazon/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.yaml`

`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent.yaml`

## Finding information about CloudWatch agent versions

To find the version number of the CloudWatch agent on a Linux server, enter the following
command:

```

sudo /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl -a status
```

To find the version number of the CloudWatch agent on Windows Server, enter the following
command:

```

& $Env:ProgramFiles\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl.ps1 -m ec2 -a status
```

###### Note

Using this command is the correct way to find the version of the CloudWatch agent. If you
use **Programs and Features** in the Control Panel, you will see an
incorrect version number.

You can also download a README file about the latest changes to the agent, and a file
that indicates the version number that is currently available for download. These files are
in the following locations:

- `https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/info/latest/RELEASE_NOTES`
or
`https://amazoncloudwatch-agent-us-east-1.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/info/latest/RELEASE_NOTES`

- `https://amazoncloudwatch-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/info/latest/CWAGENT_VERSION`
or
`https://amazoncloudwatch-agent-us-east-1.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/info/latest/CWAGENT_VERSION`

## Logs generated by the CloudWatch agent

The agent generates a log while it runs. This log includes troubleshooting information.
This log is the `amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log` file. This file is located
in `/opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/logs/amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log` on Linux
servers and in
`$Env:ProgramData\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\Logs\amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log`
on servers running Windows Server.

You can configure the agent to log additional details in the
`amazon-cloudwatch-agent.log` file. In the agent configuration file, in
the `agent` section, set the `debug` field to `true`, then
reconfigure and restart the CloudWatch agent. To disable the logging of this extra information,
set the `debug` field to `false`. Then, reconfigure and restart the
agent. For more information, see [Manually create or edit the CloudWatch agent configuration file](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Agent-Configuration-File-Details.html).

In versions 1.247350.0 and later of the CloudWatch agent, you can optionally set the
`aws_sdk_log_level` field in the `agent` section of the agent
configuration file to one or more of the following options. Separate multiple options with
the `|` character.

- `LogDebug`

- `LogDebugWithSigning`

- `LogDebugWithHTTPBody`

- `LogDebugRequestRetries`

- `LogDebugWithEventStreamBody`

For more information about these options, see [LogLevelType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/aws#LogLevelType).

## Stopping and restarting the CloudWatch agent

You can manually stop the CloudWatch agent using either AWS Systems Manager or the command line.

###### To stop the CloudWatch agent using Run Command

1. Open the Systems Manager console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager).

2. In the navigation pane, choose
    **Run Command**.

   -or-

If the AWS Systems Manager home page opens, scroll down and
    choose **Explore Run Command**.

3. Choose **Run command**.

4. In the **Command document** list, choose
    **AmazonCloudWatch-ManageAgent**.

5. In the **Targets** area, choose the instance where you installed
    the CloudWatch agent.

6. In the **Action** list, choose **stop**.

7. Keep **Optional Configuration Source** and **Optional**
**Configuration Location** blank.

8. Choose **Run**.

###### To stop the CloudWatch agent locally using the command line

- On a Linux server, enter the following:

```

sudo /opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl -m ec2 -a stop
```

On a server running Windows Server, enter the following in PowerShell as an
administrator:

```

& $Env:ProgramFiles\Amazon\AmazonCloudWatchAgent\amazon-cloudwatch-agent-ctl.ps1 -m ec2 -a stop
```

To restart the agent, follow the instructions in [(Optional) Modify the common configuration and named profile for CloudWatch agent](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/installing-cloudwatch-agent-ssm.html#CloudWatch-Agent-profile-instance-fleet).

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

CloudWatch agent credentials preference

Embedding metrics within logs
