# DeleteAnalyzer

Deletes the specified analyzer. When you delete an analyzer, IAM Access Analyzer is disabled
for the account or organization in the current or specific Region. All findings that were
generated by the analyzer are deleted. You cannot undo this action.

## Request Syntax

```nohighlight

DELETE /analyzer/analyzerName?clientToken=clientToken HTTP/1.1

```

## URI Request Parameters

The request uses the following URI parameters.

**[analyzerName](#API_DeleteAnalyzer_RequestSyntax)**

The name of the analyzer to delete.

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 1. Maximum length of 255.

Pattern: `[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_.-]*`

Required: Yes

**[clientToken](#API_DeleteAnalyzer_RequestSyntax)**

A client token.

## Request Body

The request does not have a request body.

## Response Syntax

```

HTTP/1.1 200

```

## Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response with an empty HTTP body.

## Errors

For information about the errors that are common to all actions, see [Common Error Types](commonerrors.md).

**AccessDeniedException**

You do not have sufficient access to perform this action.

HTTP Status Code: 403

**InternalServerException**

Internal server error.

**retryAfterSeconds**

The seconds to wait to retry.

HTTP Status Code: 500

**ResourceNotFoundException**

The specified resource could not be found.

**resourceId**

The ID of the resource.

**resourceType**

The type of the resource.

HTTP Status Code: 404

**ThrottlingException**

Throttling limit exceeded error.

**retryAfterSeconds**

The seconds to wait to retry.

HTTP Status Code: 429

**ValidationException**

Validation exception error.

**fieldList**

A list of fields that didn't validate.

**reason**

The reason for the exception.

HTTP Status Code: 400

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS Command Line Interface V2](../../../../services/goto/cli2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for .NET V4](../../../goto/dotnetsdkv4/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for Go v2](../../../goto/sdkforgov2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for JavaScript V3](../../../goto/sdkforjavascriptv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for Kotlin](../../../goto/sdkforkotlin/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for PHP V3](../../../goto/sdkforphpv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for Python](../../../../services/goto/boto3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/accessanalyzer-2019-11-01/deleteanalyzer.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

CreateArchiveRule

DeleteArchiveRule
