# Identity columns

###### Important

When using identity columns, the cache value should be
carefully considered. For more information, see the Important callout on the [CREATE SEQUENCE](create-sequence-syntax-support.md) page.

For guidance on how best to use identity columns based on workload patterns,
see [Working with sequences and identity columns](sequences-identity-columns-working-with.md).

An identity column is a special column that's generated automatically from an implicit
sequence. It can be used to generate key values. To create an identity column, use the
`GENERATED ... AS IDENTITY` clause in
[CREATE TABLE](create-table-syntax-support.md), for example:

```sql

CREATE TABLE people (
    id bigint GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY (CACHE 70000),
    ...
);
```

or alternatively:

```sql

CREATE TABLE people (
    id bigint GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY (CACHE 70000),
    ...
);
```

See [CREATE TABLE](create-table-syntax-support.md) for more details.

If an `INSERT` command is executed on the table with the identity column and
no value is explicitly specified for the identity column, then a value generated by the
implicit sequence is inserted. For example, with the preceding definitions and assuming additional
appropriate columns, writing:

```sql

INSERT INTO people (name, address) VALUES ('A', 'foo');
INSERT INTO people (name, address) VALUES ('B', 'bar');
```

would generate values for the `id` column starting at 1 and result in the
following table data:

```sql

 id | name | address
----+------+---------
  1 | A    | foo
  2 | B    | bar
```

Alternatively, the keyword `DEFAULT` can be specified in place of a value to
explicitly request the sequence-generated value:

```sql

INSERT INTO people (id, name, address) VALUES (DEFAULT, 'C', 'baz');
```

Similarly, the keyword `DEFAULT` can be used in `UPDATE`
commands.

Thus, in many ways, an identity column behaves like a column with a default value.

The clauses `ALWAYS` and `BY DEFAULT` in the column definition
determine how explicitly user-specified values are handled in `INSERT` and
`UPDATE` commands. In an `INSERT` command, if `ALWAYS` is
selected, a user-specified value is only accepted if the `INSERT` statement
specifies `OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE`. If `BY DEFAULT` is selected, then
the user-specified value takes precedence. Thus, using `BY DEFAULT` results in a
behavior more similar to default values, where the default value can be overridden by an
explicit value, whereas `ALWAYS` provides some more protection against accidentally
inserting an explicit value.

The data type of an identity column must be one of the data types supported by sequences.
(See [CREATE SEQUENCE](create-sequence-syntax-support.md).) The properties of the associated sequence
might be specified when creating an identity column (see
[CREATE TABLE](create-table-syntax-support.md)) or changed afterwards (see
[ALTER TABLE](alter-table-syntax-support.md)).

An identity column is automatically marked as `NOT NULL`. An identity column,
however, doesn't guarantee uniqueness. (A sequence normally returns unique values, but a
sequence could be reset, or values could be inserted manually into the identity column, as
discussed previously.) Uniqueness would need to be enforced using a `PRIMARY KEY` or
`UNIQUE` constraint.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Sequence manipulation functions

Working with sequences and identity columns

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
