# Parameter reference for Aurora PostgreSQL query plan management

You can set your preferences for the `apg_plan_mgmt` extension by using the
parameters listed in this section. These are available in the custom DB cluster
parameter and the DB parameter group associated with your Aurora PostgreSQL DB cluster.
These parameters control the behavior of the query plan management feature and how it
affects the optimizer. For information about setting up query plan management, see [Turning on Aurora PostgreSQL query plan management](aurorapostgresql-optimize-overview.md#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Enable). Changing the parameters
following has no effect if the `apg_plan_mgmt` extension isn't set up as
detailed in that section. For information about modifying parameters, see [Modifying parameters in a DB cluster parameter groupin Amazon Aurora](user-workingwithparamgroups-modifyingcluster.md) and [DB parameter groups for Amazon Aurora DB instances](user-workingwithdbinstanceparamgroups.md).

###### Parameters

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.capture\_plan\_baselines](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.capture_plan_baselines)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_capture\_threshold](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.plan_capture_threshold)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.explain\_hashes](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.explain_hashes)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.log\_plan\_enforcement\_result](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.log_plan_enforcement_result)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.max\_databases](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.max_databases)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.max\_plans](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.max_plans)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_hash\_version](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.plan_hash_version)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_retention\_period](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.plan_retention_period)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.unapproved\_plan\_execution\_threshold](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.unapproved_plan_execution_threshold)

- [apg\_plan\_mgmt.use\_plan\_baselines](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.use_plan_baselines)

- [auto\_explain.hashes](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.auto_explain.hashes)

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.capture\_plan\_baselines

Captures query execution plans generated by the optimizer for each SQL statement
and stores them in the `dba_plans` view. By default, the maximum number
of plans that can be stored is 10,000 as specified by the
`apg_plan_mgmt.max_plans` parameter. For reference information, see
[apg\_plan\_mgmt.max\_plans](#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Parameters.max_plans).

You can set this parameter in the custom DB cluster parameter group or in the
custom DB parameter group. Changing the value of this parameter doesn't require
a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescriptionoffautomaticApply this setting at either the session level or in a parameter
group to capture plans that are used two or more times.manualApply this setting at either the session level or in a parameter
group to capture plans that are used one or more times.offTurns off plan capture.

For more information, see [Capturing Aurora PostgreSQL execution plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-captureplans.md).

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_capture\_threshold

Specifies a threshold so that if the total cost of the query execution plan is
below the threshold, the plan won’t be captured in the
`apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view.

Changing the value of this parameter doesn't require a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription00 - 1.79769e+308

Sets the threshold of the `apg_plan_mgmt` query
plan total execution cost for capturing plans.

For more information, see [Examining Aurora PostgreSQL query plans in the dba\_plans view](aurorapostgresql-optimize-viewplans.md).

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.explain\_hashes

Specifies if the `EXPLAIN [ANALYZE]` shows `sql_hash` and
`plan_hash` at the end of its output. Changing the value of this
parameter doesn't require a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription00 (off)EXPLAIN does not show sql\_hash and plan\_hash without hashes true
option.1 (on)EXPLAIN shows sql\_hash and plan\_hash without hashes true
option.

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.log\_plan\_enforcement\_result

Specifies if the results has to be recorded to see if the QPM managed plans are
used properly. When a stored generic plan is used, there will be no records written
in the log files. Changing the value of this parameter doesn't require a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescriptionnonenone Does not show any plan enforcement result in log files.on\_errorOnly shows plan enforcement result in log files when QPM fails to
use managed plans.allShows all plan enforcement results in log files including both
successes and failures.

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.max\_databases

Specifies the maximum number of databases on your Aurora PostgreSQL DB cluster's
Writer instance that can use query plan management. By default, up to 10 databases
can use query plan management. If you have more than 10 databases on the instance,
you can change the value of this setting. To find out how many databases are on a
given instance, connect to the instance using `psql`. Then, use the psql
metacommand, `\l`, to list the databases.

Changing the value of this parameter requires that you reboot the instance for the
setting to take effect.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription1010-2147483647Maximum number of databases that can use query plan management on
the instance.

You can set this parameter in the custom DB cluster parameter group or in the
custom DB parameter group.

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.max\_plans

Sets the maximum number of SQL statements that the query plan manager can maintain
in the `apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view. We recommend setting this
parameter to `10000` or higher for all Aurora PostgreSQL versions.

You can set this parameter in the custom DB cluster parameter group or in the
custom DB parameter group. Changing the value of this parameter requires that you
reboot the instance for the setting to take effect.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription1000010-2147483647

Maximum number of plans that can be stored in the
`apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view.

Default for Aurora PostgreSQL version 10 and older versions is
1000.

For more information, see [Examining Aurora PostgreSQL query plans in the dba\_plans view](aurorapostgresql-optimize-viewplans.md).

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_hash\_version

Specifies the use cases that the plan\_hash calculation is designed to cover. A
higher version of `apg_plan_mgmt.plan_hash_version` covers all the
functionality of the lower version. For example, version 3 covers the use cases
supported by version 2.

Changing the value of this parameter must be followed by a call to
`apg_plan_mgmt.validate_plans('update_plan_hash')`. It updates the
plan\_hash values in each database with apg\_plan\_mgmt installed and entries in the
plans table. For more information, see [Validating plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-deleting.md#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.Maintenance.ValidatingPlans)

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription11Default plan\_hash calculation.2plan\_hash calculation modified for multi-schema support.3plan\_hash calculation modified for multi-schema support and
partitioned table support.4plan\_hash calculation modified for parallel operators and to
support materialize nodes.

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.plan\_retention\_period

Specifies the number of days to keep plans in the
`apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view, after which they're
automatically deleted. By default, a plan is deleted when 32 days have elapsed since
the plan was last used (the `last_used` column in the
`apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view). You can change this setting to any
number, 1 and over.

Changing the value of this parameter requires that you reboot the instance for the
setting to take effect.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription321-2147483647Maximum number of days since a plan was last used before
it's deleted.

For more information, see [Examining Aurora PostgreSQL query plans in the dba\_plans view](aurorapostgresql-optimize-viewplans.md).

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.unapproved\_plan\_execution\_threshold

Specifies a cost threshold below which an Unapproved plan can be used by the
optimizer. By default the threshold is 0, so the optimizer doesn't run Unapproved
plans. Setting this parameter to a trivially low cost threshold such as 100 avoids
plan enforcement overhead on trivial plans. You can also set this parameter to an
extremely large value like 10000000 using the reactive style of plan management.
This allows the optimizer to use all chosen plans with no plan enforcement overhead.
But, when a bad plan is found, you can manually mark it as "rejected" so that it is
not used next time.

The value of this parameter represents a cost estimate for running a given plan.
If an Unapproved plan is below that estimated cost, the optimizer uses it for the
SQL statement. You can see captured plans and their status (Approved, Unapproved) in
the `dba_plans` view. To learn more, see [Examining Aurora PostgreSQL query plans in the dba\_plans view](aurorapostgresql-optimize-viewplans.md).

Changing the value of this parameter doesn't require a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription00-2147483647Estimated plan cost below which an Unapproved plan is
used.

For more information, see [Using Aurora PostgreSQL managed plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-useplans.md).

## apg\_plan\_mgmt.use\_plan\_baselines

Specifies that the optimizer should use one of the Approved plans captured and
stored in the `apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans` view. By default, this parameter
is off (false), causing the optimizer to use the minimum-cost plan that it generates
without any further assessment. Turning this parameter on (setting it to true)
forces the optimizer to choose a query execution plan for the statement from its
plan baseline. For more information, see [Using Aurora PostgreSQL managed plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-useplans.md). To find an image detailing
this process, see [How the optimizer chooses which plan to run](aurorapostgresql-optimize-useplans.md#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.UsePlans.ChoosePlans).

You can set this parameter in the custom DB cluster parameter group or in the
custom DB parameter group. Changing the value of this parameter doesn't require
a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescriptionfalsetrueUse an Approved, Preferred, or Unapproved plan from the
`apg_plan_mgmt.dba_plans`. If none of those meet all
evaluation criterion for the optimizer, it can then use its own
generated minimum-cost plan. For more information, see [How the optimizer chooses which plan to run](aurorapostgresql-optimize-useplans.md#AuroraPostgreSQL.Optimize.UsePlans.ChoosePlans).falseUse the minimum cost plan generated by the optimizer.

You can evaluate response times of different captured plans and change plan
status, as needed. For more information, see [Improving Aurora PostgreSQL query plans](aurorapostgresql-optimize-maintenance.md).

## auto\_explain.hashes

Specifies if the auto\_explain output shows sql\_hash and plan\_hash. Changing the
value of this parameter doesn't require a reboot.

DefaultAllowed valuesDescription0(off)0(off)`auto_explain` result does not show
`sql_hash` and `plan_hash`.1(on)`auto_explain` result shows `sql_hash` and
`plan_hash` .

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Exporting and importing managed plans

Function reference

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
