# databaseActivityEventList JSON array for database activity streams

The audit log payload is an encrypted `databaseActivityEventList` JSON array. The following tables lists alphabetically the
fields for each activity event in the decrypted `DatabaseActivityEventList` array of an audit log.
The fields differ depending on whether you use Aurora PostgreSQL or Aurora MySQL. Consult
the table that applies to your database engine.

###### Important

The event structure is subject to change. Aurora might add new fields to activity events in the future. In applications
that parse the JSON data, make sure that your code can ignore or take appropriate actions for unknown field
names.

## databaseActivityEventList fields for Aurora PostgreSQL

The following are `databaseActivityEventList` fields for Aurora PostgreSQL.

FieldData TypeDescription`class`string

The class of activity event. Valid values for Aurora PostgreSQL are the following:

- `ALL`

- `CONNECT` – A connect or disconnect event.

- `DDL` – A DDL statement that is not included in the list of statements for the
`ROLE` class.

- `FUNCTION` – A function call or a `DO` block.

- `MISC` – A miscellaneous command such as `DISCARD`,
`FETCH`, `CHECKPOINT`, or `VACUUM`.

- `NONE`

- `READ` – A `SELECT` or `COPY` statement when the source
is a relation or a query.

- `ROLE` – A statement related to roles and privileges including
`GRANT`, `REVOKE`, and
`CREATE`/ `ALTER`/ `DROP` `ROLE`.

- `WRITE` – An `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`,
`TRUNCATE`, or `COPY` statement when the destination is a relation.

`clientApplication`stringThe application the client used to connect as reported by the client. The client doesn't have to
provide this information, so the value can be null.`command`stringThe name of the SQL command without any command details.`commandText`string

The actual SQL statement passed in by the user. For Aurora PostgreSQL, the value is identical to the
original SQL statement. This field is used for all types of records except for connect or disconnect
records, in which case the value is null.

###### Important

The full SQL text of each statement is visible in the activity stream audit log, including any
sensitive data. However, database user passwords are redacted if Aurora can determine them from the
context, such as in the following SQL statement.

```sql

ALTER ROLE role-name WITH password
```

`databaseName`stringThe database to which the user connected.`dbProtocol`stringThe database protocol, for example `Postgres 3.0`.`dbUserName`stringThe database user with which the client authenticated.`errorMessage`

(version 1.1 database activity records
only)

string

If there was any error, this field is populated with the error message that
would've been generated by the DB server. The `errorMessage`
value is null for normal statements that didn't result in an error.

An error is defined as any activity that would produce a client-visible
PostgreSQL error log event at a severity level of `ERROR` or greater.
For more information, see [PostgreSQL Message Severity Levels](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-logging.html). For example, syntax errors and
query cancellations generate an error message.

Internal PostgreSQL server errors such as background checkpointer process
errors do not generate an error message. However, records for such events are
still emitted regardless of the setting of the log severity level. This prevents
attackers from turning off logging to attempt avoiding detection.

See also the `exitCode` field.

`exitCode`intA value used for a session exit record. On a clean exit, this contains the
exit code. An exit code can't always be obtained in some failure scenarios.
Examples are if PostgreSQL does an `exit()` or if an operator performs
a command such as `kill -9`.

If there was any error, the
`exitCode` field shows the SQL error code, `SQLSTATE`,
as listed in [PostgreSQL Error Codes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/errcodes-appendix.html).

See also the
`errorMessage` field.

`logTime`stringA timestamp as recorded in the auditing code path. This represents the SQL statement execution end
time. See also the `startTime` field.`netProtocol`stringThe network communication protocol.`objectName`stringThe name of the database object if the SQL statement is operating on one. This field is used only
where the SQL statement operates on a database object. If the SQL statement is not operating on an object,
this value is null.`objectType`stringThe database object type such as table, index, view, and so on. This field is used only where the SQL
statement operates on a database object. If the SQL statement is not operating on an object, this value is
null. Valid values include the following:

- `COMPOSITE TYPE`

- `FOREIGN TABLE`

- `FUNCTION`

- `INDEX`

- `MATERIALIZED VIEW`

- `SEQUENCE`

- `TABLE`

- `TOAST TABLE`

- `VIEW`

- `UNKNOWN`

`paramList`stringAn array of comma-separated parameters passed to the SQL statement. If the SQL statement has no
parameters, this value is an empty array.`pid`intThe process ID of the backend process that is allocated for serving the client connection.`remoteHost`stringEither the client IP address or hostname. For Aurora PostgreSQL, which one is used depends on the
database's `log_hostname` parameter setting. The `remoteHost` value also includes `[local]` and `localhost`
which indicate activity from the `rdsadmin` user.`remotePort`stringThe client port number.`rowCount`intThe number of table rows affected or retrieved by the SQL statement. This field is used only for SQL
statements that are data manipulation language (DML) statements. If the SQL statement is not a DML
statement, this value is null.`serverHost`stringThe database server host IP address. The `serverHost` value also includes `[local]` and `localhost`
which indicate activity from the `rdsadmin` user.`serverType`stringThe database server type, for example `PostgreSQL`.`serverVersion`stringThe database server version, for example `2.3.1` for Aurora PostgreSQL.`serviceName`stringThe name of the service, for example `Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL-Compatible edition`.
`sessionId`intA pseudo-unique session identifier.`sessionId`intA pseudo-unique session identifier.`startTime`

(version 1.1 database activity records
only)

string

The time when execution began for the SQL statement.

To calculate the approximate execution time of the SQL statement, use
`logTime - startTime`. See also the `logTime`
field.

`statementId`intAn identifier for the client's SQL statement. The counter is at the session level and increments with
each SQL statement entered by the client. `substatementId`intAn identifier for a SQL substatement. This value counts the contained substatements for each SQL
statement identified by the `statementId` field.`type`stringThe event type. Valid values are `record` or `heartbeat`.

## databaseActivityEventList fields for Aurora MySQL

The following are `databaseActivityEventList` fields for Aurora MySQL.

FieldData TypeDescription`class`string

The class of activity event.

Valid values for Aurora MySQL are the following:

- `MAIN` – The primary event representing a SQL statement.

- `AUX` – A supplemental event containing additional details. For example, a
statement that renames an object might have an event with class `AUX` that reflects the
new name.

To find `MAIN` and `AUX` events corresponding to the same statement, check
for different events that have the same values for the `pid` field and for the
`statementId` field.

`clientApplication`stringThe application the client used to connect as reported by the client. The client doesn't have to
provide this information, so the value can be null.`command`string

The general category of the SQL statement. The values for this field depend on the value of
`class`.

The values when `class` is `MAIN` include the following:

- `CONNECT` – When a client session is connected.

- `QUERY` – A SQL statement. Accompanied by one or more events with a
`class` value of `AUX`.

- `DISCONNECT` – When a client session is disconnected.

- `FAILED_CONNECT` – When a client attempts to connect but isn't able to.

- `CHANGEUSER` – A state change that's part of the MySQL network protocol, not
from a statement that you issue.

The values when `class` is `AUX` include the following:

- `READ` – A `SELECT` or `COPY` statement when the source
is a relation or a query.

- `WRITE` – An `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`,
`TRUNCATE`, or `COPY` statement when the destination is a relation.

- `DROP` – Deleting an object.

- `CREATE` – Creating an object.

- `RENAME` – Renaming an object.

- `ALTER` – Changing the properties of an object.

`commandText`string

For events with a `class` value of `MAIN`, this field represents the actual SQL
statement passed in by the user. This field is used for all types of records except for connect or
disconnect records, in which case the value is null.

For events with a `class` value of `AUX`, this field contains supplemental
information about the objects involved in the event.

For Aurora MySQL, characters such as quotation marks are preceded by a backslash, representing an
escape character.

###### Important

The full SQL text of each statement is visible in the audit log, including any sensitive data.
However, database user passwords are redacted if Aurora can determine them from the context, such as in
the following SQL statement.

```sql

mysql> SET PASSWORD = 'my-password';
```

###### Note

Specify a password other than the prompt shown here as a security best practice.

`databaseName`stringThe database to which the user connected.`dbProtocol`stringThe database protocol. Currently, this value is always `MySQL` for Aurora MySQL.`dbUserName`stringThe database user with which the client authenticated.`endTime`

(version 1.2 database activity records
only)

string

The time when execution ended for the SQL statement. It is represented in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) format.

To calculate the execution time of the SQL statement, use
`endTime - startTime`. See also the `startTime`
field.

`errorMessage`

(version 1.1 database activity records
only)

string

If there was any error, this field is populated with the error message that
would've been generated by the DB server. The `errorMessage`
value is null for normal statements that didn't result in an error.

An error is defined as any activity that would produce a client-visible
MySQL error log event at a severity level of `ERROR` or greater.
For more information, see [The Error Log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/error-log.html)
in the _MySQL Reference Manual_.
For example, syntax errors and query cancellations generate an error message.

Internal MySQL server errors such as background checkpointer process
errors do not generate an error message. However, records for such events are
still emitted regardless of the setting of the log severity level. This prevents
attackers from turning off logging to attempt avoiding detection.

See also the `exitCode` field.

`exitCode`intA value used for a session exit record. On a clean exit, this contains the exit code. An exit code
can't always be obtained in some failure scenarios. In such cases, this value might be zero or might
be blank.`logTime`stringA timestamp as recorded in the auditing code path. It is represented in Coordinated Universal Time
(UTC) format. For the most accurate way to calculate statement duration, see the `startTime` and
`endTime` fields.`netProtocol`stringThe network communication protocol. Currently, this value is always `TCP` for
Aurora MySQL.`objectName`stringThe name of the database object if the SQL statement is operating on one. This field is used only
where the SQL statement operates on a database object. If the SQL statement isn't operating on an
object, this value is blank. To construct the fully qualified name of the object, combine
`databaseName` and `objectName`. If the query involves multiple objects, this field
can be a comma-separated list of names.`objectType`string

The database object type such as table, index, and so on. This field is used only where the SQL
statement operates on a database object. If the SQL statement is not operating on an object, this value
is null.

Valid values for Aurora MySQL include the following:

- `INDEX`

- `TABLE`

- `UNKNOWN`

`paramList`stringThis field isn't used for Aurora MySQL and is always null.`pid`intThe process ID of the backend process that is allocated for serving the client connection. When the
database server is restarted, the `pid` changes and the counter for the `statementId`
field starts over.`remoteHost`stringEither the IP address or hostname of the client that issued the SQL statement. For Aurora MySQL, which
one is used depends on the database's `skip_name_resolve` parameter setting. The value
`localhost` indicates activity from the `rdsadmin` special user. `remotePort`stringThe client port number.`rowCount`intThe number of rows returned by the SQL statement. For example, if a SELECT statement returns 10 rows,
rowCount is 10. For INSERT or UPDATE statements, rowCount is 0.`serverHost`stringThe database server instance identifier.`serverType`stringThe database server type, for example `MySQL`.`serverVersion`stringThe database server version. Currently, this value is always `MySQL 5.7.12` for
Aurora MySQL.`serviceName`stringThe name of the service. Currently, this value is always `Amazon Aurora MySQL` for
Aurora MySQL.`sessionId`intA pseudo-unique session identifier.`startTime`

(version 1.1 database activity records
only)

string

The time when execution began for the SQL statement. It is represented in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) format.

To calculate the execution time of the SQL statement, use
`endTime - startTime`. See also the `endTime` field.

`statementId`intAn identifier for the client's SQL statement. The counter increments with each SQL statement
entered by the client. The counter is reset when the DB instance is restarted.`substatementId`intAn identifier for a SQL substatement. This value is 1 for events with class `MAIN` and 2
for events with class `AUX`. Use the `statementId` field to identify all the events
generated by the same statement.`transactionId`

(version 1.2 database activity records only)

intAn identifier for a transaction.`type`stringThe event type. Valid values are `record` or `heartbeat`.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Audit logs

Processing an activity stream using the SDK

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
