# PerformanceInsightsMetricDimensionGroup

A logical grouping of Performance Insights metrics for a related subject area. For example, the `db.sql` dimension group consists of the following dimensions:

- `db.sql.id` \- The hash of a running SQL statement, generated by Performance Insights.

- `db.sql.db_id` \- Either the SQL ID generated by the database engine, or a value generated by Performance Insights that begins with `pi-`.

- `db.sql.statement` \- The full text of the SQL statement that is running, for example, `SELECT * FROM employees`.

- `db.sql_tokenized.id` \- The hash of the SQL digest generated by Performance Insights.

###### Note

Each response element returns a maximum of 500 bytes. For larger elements, such as SQL statements, only the first 500 bytes are returned.

## Contents

###### Note

In the following list, the required parameters are described first.

**Dimensions.member.N**

A list of specific dimensions from a dimension group. If this list isn't included, then all of the dimensions in the group were requested, or are present in the response.

Type: Array of strings

Required: No

**Group**

The available dimension groups for Performance Insights metric type.

Type: String

Required: No

**Limit**

The maximum number of items to fetch for this dimension group.

Type: Integer

Required: No

## See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

- [AWS SDK for C++](../../../goto/sdkforcpp/rds-2014-10-31/performanceinsightsmetricdimensiongroup.md)

- [AWS SDK for Java V2](../../../goto/sdkforjavav2/rds-2014-10-31/performanceinsightsmetricdimensiongroup.md)

- [AWS SDK for Ruby V3](../../../goto/sdkforrubyv3/rds-2014-10-31/performanceinsightsmetricdimensiongroup.md)

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

PendingModifiedValues

PerformanceInsightsMetricQuery

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
