AWS Audit Manager will no longer be open to new customers starting
April 30, 2026. If you would like to use Audit Manager, sign up prior to that date. Existing customers
can continue to use the service as normal. For more information, see
[AWS Audit Manager availability change](audit-manager-availability-change.md).

# ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A

AWS Audit Manager provides a prebuilt standard framework that supports the International
Organization for standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
27001:2013 Annex A.

###### Topics

- [What is ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A?](#what-is-iso-27001-2013)

- [Using this framework](#framework-iso-27001-2013)

- [Next steps](#next-steps-iso-27001-2013)

- [Additional resources](#resources-iso-27001-2013-moderate)

## What is ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A?

The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and the International Organization
for Standardization (ISO) are both independent, non-governmental, not-for-profit
organizations that develop and publish fully consensus-based international standards.

ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A is a security management standard that specifies security
management best practices and comprehensive security controls that follow the ISO/IEC
27002 best practice guidance. This international standard specifies the requirements on
how to establish, implement, maintain, and continually improve an information security
management system at your organization. Included among these standards are requirements on
the assessment and treatment of information security risks that are tailored to the needs
of your organization. The requirements in this international standard are generic and are
intended to be applicable to all organizations, regardless of type, size or nature.

## Using this framework

You can use the AWS Audit Manager framework for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A to help you prepare
for audits. This framework includes a prebuilt collection of controls with descriptions
and testing procedures. These controls are grouped into control sets according to ISO/IEC
27001:2013 Annex A requirements. You can also customize this framework and its controls to
support internal audits with specific requirements.

Using the framework as a starting point, you can create an Audit Manager assessment and start
collecting evidence that’s relevant for an ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A audit. In your
assessment, you can specify the AWS accounts that you want to include in the scope of your
audit. After you create an assessment, Audit Manager starts to assess your AWS resources. It does
this based on the controls that are defined in the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A framework.
When it's time for an audit, you—or a delegate of your choice—can review
the evidence that Audit Manager collected. Either, you can browse the evidence folders in your
assessment and choose which evidence you want to include in your assessment report. Or, if
you enabled evidence finder, you can search for specific evidence and export it in CSV
format, or create an assessment report from your search results. Either way, you can use
this assessment report to show that your controls are working as intended.

The framework details are as follows:

Framework name in AWS Audit ManagerNumber of automated controlsNumber of manual controlsNumber of control setsInternational Organization for standardization (ISO)/International
Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 27001:2013 Annex A219335

###### Important

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Security Hub CSPM, make sure
that you enabled all standards in Security Hub CSPM.

To ensure that this framework collects the intended evidence from AWS Config, make sure
that you enable the necessary AWS Config rules. To review the AWS Config rules that are used
as data source mappings in this standard framework, download the [AuditManager\_ConfigDataSourceMappings\_ISO-IEC-270012013-Annex-A.zip](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/audit-manager/latest/userguide/samples/AuditManager_ConfigDataSourceMappings_ISO-IEC-270012013-Annex-A.zip)
file.

The controls in this AWS Audit Manager framework aren't intended to verify if your systems are
compliant with this international standard. Moreover, they can't guarantee that you'll
pass an ISO/IEC audit. AWS Audit Manager doesn't automatically check procedural controls that
require manual evidence collection.

## Next steps

For instructions on how to view detailed information about this framework, including the
list of standard controls that it contains, see [Reviewing a framework in AWS Audit Manager](review-frameworks.md).

For instructions on how to create an assessment using this framework, see [Creating an assessment in AWS Audit Manager](create-assessments.md).

For instructions on how to customize this framework to support your specific
requirements, see [Making an editable copy of an existing framework in AWS Audit Manager](create-custom-frameworks-from-existing.md).

## Additional resources

- For more information about this international standard, see [ISO/IEC\
27001:2013](https://webstore.ansi.org/Standards/ISO/ISOIEC270012013) on the ANSI Webstore.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

HIPAA Omnibus Final Rule

NIST SP 800-53 R5

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
