# Amazon RDS DB instances

A _DB instance_ is an isolated database environment running in the
cloud. It is the basic building block of Amazon RDS. A DB instance can contain multiple
user-created databases, and can be accessed using the same client tools and applications you
might use to access a standalone database instance. DB instances are simple to create and
modify with the AWS command line tools, Amazon RDS API operations, or the AWS Management Console.

###### Note

Amazon RDS supports access to databases using any standard SQL client application. Amazon RDS does not allow direct host access
except with RDS Custom.

You can have up to 40 Amazon RDS DB instances, with the following limitations:

- 10 for each SQL Server edition (Enterprise, Standard, Web, and Express) under the "license-included" model

- 10 for Oracle under the "license-included" model

- 40 for Db2 under
the "bring-your-own-license" (BYOL) licensing model

- 40 for MySQL, MariaDB, or PostgreSQL

- 40 for Oracle under the "bring-your-own-license" (BYOL) licensing model

###### Note

If your application requires more DB instances, you can request additional DB instances by
using [this form](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home).

Each DB instance has a DB instance identifier. This customer-supplied name uniquely
identifies the DB instance when interacting with the Amazon RDS API and AWS CLI commands. The DB
instance identifier must be unique for that customer in an AWS Region.

The DB instance identifier forms part of the DNS hostname allocated to your instance by RDS. For
example, if you specify `db1` as the DB instance identifier, then RDS will
automatically allocate a DNS endpoint for your instance. An example endpoint is
`db1.abcdefghijkl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`,
where `db1` is your instance ID.

In the example endpoint
`db1.abcdefghijkl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`,
the string `abcdefghijkl` is a unique identifier for a
specific combination of AWS Region and AWS account. The identifier
`abcdefghijkl` in the example is internally
generated by RDS and doesn't change for the specified combination of Region and account.
Thus, all your DB instances in this Region share the same fixed identifier. Consider the following
features of the fixed identifier:

- If you rename your DB instance, the endpoint is different but the fixed identifier is
the same. For example, if you rename `db1` to
`renamed-db1`, the new instance
endpoint is
`renamed-db1.abcdefghijkl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`.

- If you delete and re-create a DB instance with the same DB instance identifier, the endpoint
is the same.

- If you use the same account to create a DB instance in a different Region, the
internally generated identifier is different because the Region is different, as in
`db2.mnopqrstuvwx.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com`.

Each DB instance supports a database engine. Amazon RDS currently supports Db2, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Microsoft
SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora database engines.

When creating a DB instance, some database engines require that a database name be specified. A
DB instance can host multiple databases or a single Oracle database with multiple schemas. The
database name value depends on the database engine:

- For the Db2 database engine, the database name is the name of the database hosted
in your DB instance. This field is optional. You can create a database later by calling
the `rdsadmin.create_database` stored procedure. For more information,
see [Creating a database](db2-managing-databases.md#db2-creating-database).

- For the MySQL and MariaDB database engines, the database name is the name of a database
hosted in your DB instance. Databases hosted by the same DB instance must have a
unique name within that instance.

- For the Oracle database engine, database name is used to set the value of ORACLE\_SID,
which must be supplied when connecting to the Oracle RDS instance.

- For the Microsoft SQL Server database engine, database name is not a supported
parameter.

- For the PostgreSQL database engine, the database name is the name of a
database hosted in your DB instance. A database name is not required when
creating a DB instance. Databases hosted by the same DB instance must have a
unique name within that instance.

Amazon RDS creates a master user account for your DB instance as part of the creation process.
This master user has permissions to create databases and to perform create, delete, select,
update, and insert operations on tables the master user creates. You must set the master user
password when you create a DB instance, but you can change it at any time using the AWS CLI, Amazon RDS
API operations, or the AWS Management Console. You can also change the master user password and manage users using standard SQL commands.

###### Note

This guide covers non-Aurora Amazon RDS database engines. For information about using Amazon Aurora,
see the [_Amazon Aurora User Guide_](../aurorauserguide/chap-auroraoverview.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

What is Amazon RDS?

DB instance classes

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
