# Importing a PostgreSQL database from an Amazon EC2 instance

If you have data in a PostgreSQL server on an Amazon EC2 instance and want to move it
to a PostgreSQL DB instance, you can follow this process to migrate the data.

1. Create a file using pg\_dump that contains the data to be loaded

2. Create the target DB instance

3. Use _psql_ to create the database on the DB instance
    and load the data

4. Create a DB snapshot of the DB instance

The following sections provide more details on each step listed above.

## Step 1: Create a file using pg\_dump that contains the data to load

The `pg_dump` utility uses the COPY command to create a schema and
data dump of a PostgreSQL database. The dump script generated by
`pg_dump` loads data into a database with the same name and
recreates the tables, indexes, and foreign keys. You can use the
`pg_restore` command and the `-d` parameter to restore
the data to a database with a different name.

Before you create the data dump, you should query the tables to be dumped to
get a row count so you can confirm the count on the target DB instance.

The following command creates a dump file called mydb2dump.sql for a database
called mydb2.

```nohighlight

prompt>pg_dump dbname=mydb2 -f mydb2dump.sql
```

## Step 2: Create the target DB instance

Create the target PostgreSQL DB instance using either the Amazon RDS console,
AWS CLI, or API. Create the instance with the backup retention setting set to 0
and disable Multi-AZ. Doing so allows faster data import. You must create a
database on the instance before you can dump the data. The database can have the
same name as the database that is contained the dumped data. Alternatively, you
can create a database with a different name. In this case, you use the
`pg_restore` command and the `-d` parameter to restore
the data into the newly named database.

For example, the following commands can be used to dump, restore, and rename a
database.

```nohighlight

pg_dump -Fc -v -h [endpoint of instance] -U [master username] [database] > [database].dump
createdb [new database name]
pg_restore -v -h [endpoint of instance] -U [master username] -d [new database name] [database].dump
```

## Step 3: Use psql to create the database on the DB instance and load data

You can use the same connection you used to run the pg\_dump command to connect
to the target DB instance and recreate the database. Using
_psql_, you can use the master user name and master
password to create the database on the DB instance

The following example uses _psql_ and a dump file named
mydb2dump.sql to create a database called mydb2 on a PostgreSQL DB instance
called mypginstance:

For Linux, macOS, or Unix:

```nohighlight

psql \
   -f mydb2dump.sql \
   --host mypginstance.555555555555.aws-region.rds.amazonaws.com \
   --port 8199 \
   --username myawsuser \
   --password password \
   --dbname mydb2
```

For Windows:

```nohighlight

psql ^
   -f mydb2dump.sql ^
   --host mypginstance.555555555555.aws-region.rds.amazonaws.com ^
   --port 8199 ^
   --username myawsuser ^
   --password password ^
   --dbname mydb2
```

###### Note

Specify a password other than the prompt shown here as a security best
practice.

## Step 4: Create a DB snapshot of the DB instance

Once you have verified that the data was loaded into your DB instance, we
recommend that you create a DB snapshot of the target PostgreSQL DB instance. DB
snapshots are complete backups of your DB instance that can be used to restore
your DB instance to a known state. A DB snapshot taken immediately after the
load protects you from having to load the data again in case of a mishap. You
can also use such a snapshot to seed new DB instances. For information about
creating a DB snapshot, see [Creating a DB snapshot for a Single-AZ DB instance for Amazon RDS](user-createsnapshot.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Importing data into
PostgreSQL

Using the \\copy command to import data to a table on a PostgreSQL DB instance

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
