# Improving query performance for RDS for PostgreSQL with Amazon RDS Optimized Reads

You can achieve faster query processing for RDS for PostgreSQL with Amazon RDS Optimized Reads. An
RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance or Multi-AZ DB cluster that uses RDS Optimized Reads can achieve up to 50% faster
query processing compared to one that doesn't use it.

###### Topics

- [Overview of RDS Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-overview)

- [Use cases for RDS Optimized Reads](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-use-cases)

- [Best practices for RDS Optimized Reads](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-best-practices)

- [Using RDS Optimized Reads](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-using)

- [Monitoring DB instances that use RDS Optimized Reads](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-monitoring)

- [Limitations for RDS Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL](#USER_PostgreSQL.optimizedreads-limitations)

## Overview of RDS Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL

Optimized Reads is available by default on RDS for PostgreSQL versions 15.2 and
higher, 14.7 and higher, and 13.10 and higher when using NVMe-based DB instance classes. For
hardware specifications that indicate which instances use NVMe, see [Hardware specifications for DB instance classes](concepts-dbinstanceclass-summary.md).

When you use an RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance or Multi-AZ DB cluster that has RDS Optimized Reads turned on,
it achieves up to 50% faster query performance using the local Non-Volatile Memory
Express (NVMe) based solid state drive (SSD) block-level storage. You can achieve faster
query processing by placing the temporary tables that are generated by PostgreSQL on the
local storage, which reduces the traffic to Elastic Block Storage (EBS) over the
network.

In PostgreSQL, temporary objects are assigned to a temporary namespace that drops
automatically at the end of the session.
The temporary namespace while dropping removes any objects that are session-dependent, including schema-qualified objects, such
as tables, functions, operators, or even extensions.

In RDS for PostgreSQL, the `temp_tablespaces` parameter is configured for this
temporary work area where the temporary objects are stored.

The following queries return the name of the tablespace and its location.

```nohighlight

postgres=> show temp_tablespaces;
temp_tablespaces
---------------------
rds_temp_tablespace
(1 row)

```

The `rds_temp_tablespace` is a tablespace configured by RDS that points to the NVMe local storage.
You can always switch back to Amazon EBS storage by modifying this parameter in the
`Parameter group` using the AWS Management Console to point to any tablespace other
than `rds_temp_tablespace`. For more information, see [Modifying parameters in a DB parameter group in Amazon RDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.Modifying.html). You can also use the SET
command to modify the value of the `temp_tablespaces` parameter to
`pg_default` at the session level using SET command. Modifying the
parameter redirects the temporary work area to Amazon EBS. Switching back to Amazon EBS helps when
the local storage for your RDS instance or cluster isn't sufficient to perform a
specific SQL operation.

```nohighlight

postgres=> SET temp_tablespaces TO 'pg_default';
SET
```

```nohighlight

postgres=> show temp_tablespaces;

 temp_tablespaces
------------------
 pg_default

```

## Use cases for RDS Optimized Reads

The following are some use cases that can benefit from Optimized Reads:

- Analytical queries that include Common Table Expressions (CTEs), derived
tables, and grouping operations.

- Read replicas that handle the unoptimized queries for an application.

- On-demand or dynamic reporting queries with complex operations such as GROUP
BY and ORDER BY that can't always use appropriate indexes.

- Other workloads that use internal temporary tables.

- `CREATE INDEX` or `REINDEX` operations for sorting.

## Best practices for RDS Optimized Reads

Use the following best practices for RDS Optimized Reads:

- Add retry logic for read-only queries in case they fail because the instance
store is full during the execution.

- Monitor the storage space available on the instance store with the CloudWatch metric
`FreeLocalStorage`. If the instance store is reaching its limit
because of the workload on the DB instance or Multi-AZ DB cluster, modify it to use a larger DB instance
class.

## Using RDS Optimized Reads

When you provision an RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance with one of the NVMe based DB instance classes in a
Single-AZ DB instance deployment, Multi-AZ DB instance deployment, or Multi-AZ DB cluster deployment,
the DB instance automatically uses RDS Optimized Reads.

For more information about Multi-AZ deployment, see [Configuring and managing a Multi-AZ deployment for Amazon RDS](concepts-multiaz.md).

To turn on RDS Optimized Reads, do one of the following:

- Create an RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance or Multi-AZ DB cluster using one of the NVMe based DB instance classes. For
more information, see [Creating an Amazon RDS DB instance](user-createdbinstance.md).

- Modify an existing RDS for PostgreSQL DB instance or Multi-AZ DB cluster to use one of the NVMe based DB instance
classes. For more information, see [Modifying an Amazon RDS DB instance](overview-dbinstance-modifying.md).

RDS Optimized Reads is available in all AWS Regions where one or more of the DB instance classes with local NVMe SSD storage are supported. For more
information, see [DB instance classes](concepts-dbinstanceclass.md).

To switch back to a non-optimized reads RDS instance, modify the DB instance class of your
RDS instance or cluster to the similar instance class that only supports EBS storage for
your database workloads. For example, if the current DB instance class is db.r6gd.4xlarge,
choose db.r6g.4xlarge to switch back. For more information, see
[Modifying an Amazon RDS DB instance](overview-dbinstance-modifying.md).

## Monitoring DB instances that use RDS Optimized Reads

You can monitor DB instances that use RDS Optimized Reads using the following CloudWatch
metrics:

- `FreeLocalStorage`

- `ReadIOPSLocalStorage`

- `ReadLatencyLocalStorage`

- `ReadThroughputLocalStorage`

- `WriteIOPSLocalStorage`

- `WriteLatencyLocalStorage`

- `WriteThroughputLocalStorage`

These metrics provide data about available instance store storage, IOPS, and throughput. For more information
about these metrics, see [Amazon CloudWatch instance-level metrics for Amazon RDS](rds-metrics.md#rds-cw-metrics-instance).

To monitor current usage of your local storage, lo in to your database and run the
following query:

```

SELECT
    spcname AS "Name",
    pg_catalog.pg_size_pretty(pg_catalog.pg_tablespace_size(oid)) AS "size"
FROM
    pg_catalog.pg_tablespace
WHERE
    spcname IN ('rds_temp_tablespace');
```

For more information about the temporary files and their usage, see
[Managing temporary files with PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/PostgreSQL.ManagingTempFiles.html).

## Limitations for RDS Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL

The following limitation apply to RDS Optimized Reads in PostgreSQL:

- Transactions can fail when the instance store is full.

[Document Conventions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Troubleshooting for RDS for PostgreSQL read replica

Importing data into
PostgreSQL
