# Data protection and data privacy with CloudWatch RUM

The AWS [shared responsibility model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model) applies to data protection and data privacy
in Amazon CloudWatch RUM. As described in this model, AWS is responsible for protecting the
global infrastructure that runs all of the AWS cloud. You are responsible for
maintaining control over your content that is hosted on this infrastructure. For
more information about data privacy, see the [Data Privacy FAQ](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-privacy-faq). For information
about data protection in Europe, see [The AWS\
Shared Responsibility Model and GDPR](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/the-aws-shared-responsibility-model-and-gdpr) blog post on the AWS Security
Blog. For more resources about complying with GDPR requirements, see the [General Data Protection\
Regulation (GDPR) Center](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/gdpr-center).

Amazon CloudWatch RUM generates a code snippet for you to embed into your website or web
application code, based on your input of end user data that you want to collect. The
web client, downloaded and configured by the code snippet, uses cookies (or similar
technologies) to help you collect end user data. The use of cookies (or similar
technologies) is subject to data privacy regulations in certain jurisdictions.
Before using Amazon CloudWatch RUM, we strongly recommend that you assess your compliance
obligations under applicable law, including any applicable legal requirements to
provide legally adequate privacy notices and obtain any necessary consents for the
use of cookies and the processing (including collection) of end user data. For more
information about how the web client uses cookies (or similar technologies) and what
end-user data the web client collects, see [Information collected by the CloudWatch RUM web client](cloudwatch-rum-datacollected.md) and [CloudWatch RUM web client cookies (or similar technologies)](#CloudWatch-RUM-cookies).

We strongly recommend that you never put sensitive identifying information, such
as your end users’ account numbers, email addresses, or other personal information,
into free-form fields. Any data that you enter into Amazon CloudWatch RUM or other services
might be included in diagnostic logs.

## CloudWatch RUM web client cookies (or similar technologies)

The CloudWatch RUM web client collects certain data about user sessions by default.
You can choose to enable cookies to have the web client collect a user ID and
session ID that persist across page loads. The user ID is randomly generated by
RUM.

If these cookies are enabled, RUM is able to display the following types of
data when you view the RUM dashboard for this app monitor.

- Aggregated data based on user IDs, such as number of unique users and
the number of different users who experienced an error.

- Aggregated data based on session IDs, such as number of sessions and
the number of sessions that experienced an error.

- The _user journey_, which is the sequence of pages
that each sampled user session includes.

###### Important

If you do not enable these cookies (or similar technologies), the web
client still records certain information about end user sessions such as
browser type/version, operating system type/version, device type, and so on.
These are collected to provide aggregated page-specific insights, such as
web vitals, page views, and pages that experienced errors. For more
information about the data recorded, see [Information collected by the CloudWatch RUM web client](cloudwatch-rum-datacollected.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Custom metrics and extended metrics

Information collected by the CloudWatch RUM web client

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
