# Start a CloudWatch investigations from an alarm

Start a CloudWatch investigations from an alarm, or from any point in the last two weeks of a CloudWatch alarm's
history.

For more information about CloudWatch investigations, see [CloudWatch investigations](investigations.md).

## Prerequisites

Before you can start a CloudWatch investigations from a CloudWatch alarm, you must create a resource policy for
the function to allow the CloudWatch service principal to start the investigation. To do this
using the AWS CLI, use a command similar to the following example:

```

aws aiops put-investigation-group-policy \
    --identifier arn:aws:aiops:us-east-1:111122223333:investigation-group/investigation_group_id \
    --policy "{\"Version\":\"2008-10-17\",\"Statement\":[{\"Effect\":\"Allow\",\"Principal\":{\"Service\":\"aiops.alarms.cloudwatch.amazonaws.com\"},\"Action\":[\"aiops:CreateInvestigation\",\"aiops:CreateInvestigationEvent\"],\"Resource\":\"*\",\"Condition\":{\"StringEquals\":{\"aws:SourceAccount\":\"111122223333\"},\"ArnLike\":{\"aws:SourceArn\":\"arn:aws:cloudwatch:us-east-1:111122223333:alarm:*\"}}}]}" \
    --region eu-north-1

```

Replace the example values with your own AWS account ID, region, and investigation
group ID.

###### Start an investigation from a CloudWatch alarm

01. Open the CloudWatch console at
     [https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch).

02. In the left navigation pane, choose **Alarms**, **All**
    **alarms**.

03. Choose the name of the alarm.

04. Choose the time period in the alarm history that you want to investigate.

05. Choose **Investigate**, **Start new**
    **investigation**.

06. For **New investigation title**, enter a name for the
     investigation. Then choose **Start investigation**.

    The CloudWatch investigations assistant starts and scans your telemetry data to find data that might be
     associated with this situation.

07. In the CloudWatch console's navigation pane, choose **Investigations**,
     then choose the name of the investigation that you just started.

    The **Findings** section displays a natural-language summary of the
     alarm's status and the reason that it was triggered.

08. (Optional) In the graph of the alarm, right-click and choose to deep-dive into the
     alarm or the metric that it watches.

09. On the right side of the screen, choose the **Suggestions**
     tab.

    A list of other telemetry that CloudWatch investigations has discovered and that might be relevant to
     the investigation appears. These findings can include other metrics and CloudWatch Logs Insights
     query results. CloudWatch investigations ran these queries based on the alarm.
    - For each finding, choose **Add to findings** or
       **Discard**.

      When you choose **Add to findings**, the telemetry is added to
       the **Findings** section, and CloudWatch investigations uses this information to direct
       its further scanning and suggestions.

    - For a CloudWatch Logs Insights query result, to change or edit the query and re-run it,
       open the context (right-click) menu for the results, and then choose **Open**
      **in Logs Insights**. For more information, see [Analyzing log data with\
       CloudWatch Logs Insights](../logs/analyzinglogdata.md).

      To run a different query, when you get to the Logs Insights page, choose to use
       query assist to form a query using natural language. For more information, see
       [Use\
       natural language to generate and update CloudWatch Logs Insights queries](../logs/cloudwatchlogs-insights-query-assist.md).

    - (Optional) If you know of telemetry in another AWS service that might apply to
       this investigation, go to that service's console and add the telemetry to the
       investigation.
10. CloudWatch investigations might also add hypotheses to the list in the **Suggestions**
     tab. These hypotheses are generated by the investigation in natural language.

    For each hypothesis, choose **Add to findings** or
     **Discard**.

11. When you think you have completed the investigation and found the root cause of the
     issue, choose the **Overview** tab and then choose
     **Investigation summary**. CloudWatch investigations then creates a natural-language
     summary of the important findings and hypotheses from the investigation.

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Invoke a Lambda function from an alarm

Stop, terminate, reboot, or recover an EC2 instance

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
