# Logging and monitoring in Amazon CloudFront

Monitoring is an important part of maintaining the availability and performance of CloudFront
and your AWS solutions. You should collect monitoring data from all of the parts of your AWS solution
so that you can more easily debug a multi-point failure if one occurs. AWS provides several tools for
monitoring your CloudFront resources and activity, and responding to potential incidents:

**Amazon CloudWatch alarms**

Using CloudWatch alarms, you watch a single metric over a time period that you specify. If the
metric exceeds a given threshold, a notification is sent to an Amazon SNS topic or
AWS Auto Scaling policy. CloudWatch alarms do not invoke actions when a metric is in a
particular state. Rather the state must have changed and been maintained for a
specified number of periods.

For more information, see [Monitor CloudFront metrics with Amazon CloudWatch](monitoring-using-cloudwatch.md).

**AWS CloudTrail logs**

CloudTrail provides a record of API actions taken by a user, role, or an AWS service in CloudFront.
Using the information collected by CloudTrail, you can determine the API request that
was made to CloudFront, the IP address from which the request was made, who made the
request, when it was made, and additional details.

For more information, see [Logging Amazon CloudFront API calls using AWS CloudTrail](logging-using-cloudtrail.md).

**CloudFront standard logs and real-time access logs**

CloudFront logs provide detailed records about requests that are made to a distribution. These logs
are useful for many applications. For example, log information can be useful in
security and access audits.

For more information, see [Access logs (standard logs)](accesslogs.md) and [Create and use real-time access log configurations](real-time-logs.md#create-real-time-log-config).

**Edge function logs**

Logs generated by edge functions, both CloudFront Functions and Lambda@Edge, are sent directly
to Amazon CloudWatch Logs and are not stored anywhere by CloudFront. CloudFront Functions uses an
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) [service-linked role](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-terms-and-concepts.md#iam-term-service-linked-role) to send customer-generated logs directly to CloudWatch Logs
in your account.

For more information, see [Edge function logs](edge-functions-logs.md).

**CloudFront console reports**

The CloudFront console includes a variety of reports, including the cache statistics report, the
popular objects report, and the top referrers report. Most CloudFront console reports
are based on the data in CloudFront access logs, which contain detailed information
about every user request that CloudFront receives. However, you don't need to enable
access logs to view the reports.

For more information, see [View CloudFront reports in the console](reports.md).

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Troubleshoot CloudFront identity and access

Compliance validation

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
