# Setting Up SAML

To enable users to sign in to WorkSpaces Applications by using their existing credentials, and start
streaming applications, you can set up identity federation using SAML 2.0. To do this,
use an IAM role and a relay state URL to configure your SAML 2.0-compliant identity
provider (IdP) and enable AWS to permit your federated users to access an WorkSpaces Applications stack.
The IAM role grants users the permissions to access the stack. The relay state is the
stack portal to which users are forwarded after successful authentication by AWS.

###### Contents

- [Prerequisites](#external-identity-providers-setting-up-prerequisites)

- [Step 1: Create a SAML Identity Provider in AWS IAM](#external-identity-providers-create-saml-provider)

- [Step 2: Create a SAML 2.0 Federation IAM Role](#external-identity-providers-grantperms)

- [Step 3: Embed an Inline Policy for the IAM Role](#external-identity-providers-embed-inline-policy-for-IAM-role)

- [Step 4: Configure Your SAML-Based IdP](#external-identity-providers-config-idp)

- [Step 5: Create Assertions for the SAML Authentication Response](#external-identity-providers-create-assertions)

- [Step 6: Configure the Relay State of Your Federation](#external-identity-providers-relay-state)

## Prerequisites

Complete the following prerequisites before configuring your SAML 2.0
connection.

1. Configure your SAML-based IdP to establish a trust relationship with AWS.

- Inside your organization's network, configure your identity store
to work with a SAML-based IdP. For configuration resources, see
[WorkSpaces Applications Integration with SAML 2.0](external-identity-providers-further-info.md).

- Use your SAML-based IdP to generate and download a federation
metadata document that describes your organization as an IdP. This
signed XML document is used to establish the relying party trust.
Save this file to a location that you can access from the IAM
console later.

2. Use the WorkSpaces Applications management console to create an WorkSpaces Applications stack. You need the
    stack name to create the IAM policy and to configure your IdP integration
    with WorkSpaces Applications, as described later in this topic.

You can create an WorkSpaces Applications stack by using the WorkSpaces Applications management console,
    AWS CLI, or WorkSpaces Applications API. For more information, see [Create an Amazon WorkSpaces Applications Fleet and Stack](set-up-stacks-fleets.md).

## Step 1: Create a SAML Identity Provider in AWS IAM

First, create a SAML IdP in AWS IAM. This IdP defines your organization's
IdP-to-AWS trust relationship using the metadata document generated by the IdP
software in your organization. For more information, see [Creating and Managing a SAML Identity Provider (Amazon Web Services Management Console)](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-providers-create-saml.md#idp-manage-identityprovider-console) in the _IAM User Guide_. For information about working with SAML IdPs in the AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, see [AWS Identity and Access Management](../../../govcloud-us/latest/userguide/govcloud-iam.md) in the _AWS GovCloud (US) User Guide_.

## Step 2: Create a SAML 2.0 Federation IAM Role

Next, create a SAML 2.0 federation IAM role. This step
establishes a trust relationship between IAM and your organization's IdP, which
identifies your IdP as a trusted entity for federation.

###### To create an IAM role for the SAML IdP

01. Open the IAM console at
     [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam).

02. In the navigation pane, choose **Roles**,
     **Create role**.

03. For **Role type**, choose **SAML 2.0**
    **federation**.

04. For **SAML Provider**, select the SAML IdP that you
     created.

    ###### Important

    Do not choose either of the two SAML 2.0 access methods
    ( **Allow programmatic access only** or
    **Allow programmatic and Amazon Web Services Management Console**
    **access**).

05. For **Attribute**, choose
     **SAML:sub\_type**.

06. For **Value**, enter
     `https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml`. This value
     restricts role access to SAML user streaming requests that include a SAML
     subject type assertion with a value of persistent. If the SAML:sub\_type is
     persistent, your IdP sends the same unique value for the NameID element in
     all SAML requests from a particular user. For more information about the
     SAML:sub\_type assertion, see the _Uniquely Identifying Users in_
    _SAML-Based Federation_ section in [Using SAML-Based Federation for API Access to AWS](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-providers-saml.md#CreatingSAML-configuring).

    ###### Note

    Even though the
    `https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml` endpoint
    is highly available, it is only hosted in the us-east-1 region of AWS.
    To prevent service interruptions in the unlikely event that one of the
    regional endpoint's availability is affected, use regional endpoints and
    set up additional SAML sign-in endpoints for failover. For more
    information, please see [How to use regional SAML endpoints for failover](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-use-regional-saml-endpoints-for-failover).

07. Review your SAML 2.0 trust information, confirming the correct trusted entity and condition, and then choose **Next:**
    **Permissions**.

08. On the **Attach permissions policies** page, choose **Next: Tags**.

09. (Optional) Enter a key and value for each tag that you want to add. For more information, see
     [Tagging\
     IAM Users and Roles](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-tags.md).

10. When you're done, choose **Next: Review**. Later, you'll create and embed an
     inline policy for this role.

11. For **Role name**, enter a name that identifies the
     purpose of this role. Because multiple entities might reference the role,
     you can't edit the role's name once it is created.

12. (Optional) For **Role description**, enter a description
     for the new role.

13. Review the role details and choose **Create**
    **role**.

14. (Optional) If you plan to use session context or attribute-based
     application entitlements using a third-party SAML 2.0 identity provider or
     certificate-based authentication, you must add the sts:TagSession permission
     to your new IAM role's trust policy. For more information, see [Attribute-Based Application Entitlements Using a Third-Party SAML 2.0 Identity Provider](application-entitlements-saml.md) and [Passing session tags in AWS STS](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-session-tags.md).

    In your new IAM role's details, choose the **Trust**
    **relationships** tab, and then choose **Edit trust**
    **relationship**. The Edit Trust Relationship policy editor
     starts. Add the **sts:TagSession** permission, as
     follows:
    JSON

    ```json

    {
        "Version":"2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::111122223333:saml-provider/IDENTITY-PROVIDER"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "sts:AssumeRoleWithSAML",
                    "sts:TagSession"
                ],
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "SAML:sub_type": "persistent"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }

    ```

    Replace `IDENTITY-PROVIDER` `` with the
     name of the SAML IdP you created in Step 1. Then choose **Update**
    **Trust Policy**.

## Step 3: Embed an Inline Policy for the IAM Role

Next, embed an inline IAM policy for the role that you created. When you embed
an inline policy, the permissions in that policy can't be accidentally attached to
the wrong principal entity. The inline policy provides federated users with access
to the WorkSpaces Applications stack that you created.

1. In the details for the IAM role that you created, choose the **Permissions** tab, and then choose **Add inline policy**. The Create policy wizard starts.

2. In **Create policy**, choose the **JSON** tab.

3. Copy and paste the following JSON policy into the JSON window. Then, modify the resource by
    entering your AWS Region Code, account ID, and stack name. In the following
    policy, `"Action": "appstream:Stream"` is the action that
    provides your WorkSpaces Applications users with permissions to connect to streaming sessions
    on the stack that you created.
JSON

```json

{
       "Version":"2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
           {
               "Effect": "Allow",
               "Action": "appstream:Stream",
               "Resource": "arn:aws:appstream:us-east-1:111122223333:stack/STACK-NAME",
               "Condition": {
                   "StringEquals": {
                       "appstream:userId": "${saml:sub}"
                   }
               }
           }
       ]
}

```

Replace `REGION-CODE` with the AWS Region where your WorkSpaces Applications
    stack exists. Replace `STACK-NAME` with the name of
    the stack. `STACK-NAME` is case-sensitive, and must
    match the exact case and spelling as the stack name shown in the the
    **Stacks** dashboard of the WorkSpaces Applications management console.

For resources in the AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, use the following format for the ARN:

`arn:aws-us-gov:appstream:REGION-CODE:ACCOUNT-ID-WITHOUT-HYPHENS:stack/STACK-NAME`

4. (Optional) If you are planning to use attribute-based application entitlements using a
    third-party SAML 2.0 identity provider with **SAML 2.0 Multi-stack**
**Application Catalogs**, the Resource in your IAM role inline
    policy must be `"Resource":
                                   "arn:aws:appstream:REGION-CODE:ACCOUNT-ID-WITHOUT-HYPHENS:stack/*"`
    to allow application entitlements to control streaming access to stacks. To
    enforce additional protection on a stack resource, you can add an explicit
    deny in the policy. For more information, see [Attribute-Based Application Entitlements Using a Third-Party SAML 2.0 Identity Provider](application-entitlements-saml.md) and [Policy evaluation logic](../../../iam/latest/userguide/reference-policies-evaluation-logic.md).

5. When you're done, choose **Review policy**. The [Policy Validator](../../../iam/latest/userguide/access-policies-policy-validator.md) reports any syntax errors.

## Step 4: Configure Your SAML-Based IdP

Next, depending on your SAML-based IdP, you may need to manually update your IdP
to trust AWS as a service provider by uploading the
`saml-metadata.xml` file at [https://signin.aws.amazon.com/static/saml-metadata.xml](https://signin.aws.amazon.com/static/saml-metadata.xml) to your IdP. This
step updates your IdP’s metadata. For some IdPs, the update may already be
configured. If this is the case, proceed to the next step.

If this update is not already configured in your IdP, review the documentation
provided by your IdP for information about how to update the metadata. Some
providers give you the option to type the URL, and the IdP obtains and installs the
file for you. Others require you to download the file from the URL and then provide
it as a local file.

## Step 5: Create Assertions for the SAML Authentication Response

Next, you may need to configure the information that your IdP sends to AWS as SAML
attributes in its authentication response. Depending on your IdP, this information
may already be pre-configured. If this is the case, skip this step and continue to
Step 6,

If this information is not already configured in your IdP, provide the
following:

- **SAML Subject NameID** – The unique
identifier for the user who is signing in.

###### Note

For stacks with domain-joined fleets, the NameID value for the user
must be provided in the format of
" `domain\username`" using
the sAMAccountName or " `username@domain.com`" using
userPrincipalName. If you are using the sAMAccountName format, you can
specify the `domain` by using
either the NetBIOS name or the fully qualified domain name (FQDN). The
sAMAccountName format is required for Active Directory one-way trust
scenarios. For more information, see [Using Active Directory with WorkSpaces Applications](active-directory.md).

- **SAML Subject Type** (with a value set to
`persistent`) – Setting the value to
`persistent` ensures that your IdP sends the same unique
value for the `NameID` element in all SAML requests from a
particular user. Make sure that your IAM policy includes a condition to
only allow SAML requests with a SAML sub\_type set to
`persistent`, as described in [Step 2: Create a SAML 2.0 Federation IAM Role](#external-identity-providers-grantperms).

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`Name` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/Role** – This
element contains one or more `AttributeValue` elements that list
the IAM role and SAML IdP to which the user is mapped by your IdP. The
role and IdP are specified as a comma-delimited pair of ARNs.

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`Name` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/RoleSessionName**
– This element contains one `AttributeValue` element that
provides an identifier for the AWS temporary credentials that are issued for
SSO. The value in the `AttributeValue` element must be between 2
and 64 characters long, can contain only alphanumeric characters,
underscores, and the following characters: + (plus sign), = (equals sign), ,
(comma), . (period), @ (at symbol), and - (hyphen). It cannot contain
spaces. The value is typically a user ID (bobsmith) or an email address
(bobsmith@example.com). It should not be a value that includes a space, such
as a user's display name (Bob Smith).

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`Name` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/PrincipalTag:SessionContext**
**(optional)** – This element contains one
`AttributeValue` element that provides parameters that can be
used to pass session context parameters to your streaming applications. For
more information, see [Session Context in Amazon WorkSpaces Applications](managing-stacks-fleets-session-context.md).

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`Name` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/PrincipalTag:ObjectSid**
**(optional)** – This element contains one
`AttributeValue` element that provides the Active Directory
security identifier (SID) for the user who is signing in. This parameter is
used with certificate-based authentication to enable strong mapping to the
Active Directory user.

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`Name` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/PrincipalTag:Domain**
**(optional)** – This element contains one
`AttributeValue` element that provides the Active Directory
DNS fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for the user who is signing in. This
parameter is used with certificate-based authentication when the Active
Directory `userPrincipalName` for the user contains an
alternative suffix. The value must be provided in the format of
`domain.com`, including any subdomains.

- **`Attribute` element with the**
**`SessionDuration` attribute set to**
**https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/SessionDuration**
**(optional)** – This element contains one
`AttributeValue` element that specifies the maximum amount of
time that a federated streaming session for a user can remain active before
reauthentication is required. The default value is 60 minutes, or 3,600
seconds. For more information, see the _An optional_
_Attribute element with the SessionDuration attribute set to_
_https://aws.amazon.com/SAML/Attributes/SessionDuration_
section in [Configuring SAML Assertions for the Authentication\
Response](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-providers-create-saml-assertions.md).

###### Note

Although `SessionDuration` is an optional attribute, we
recommend that you include it in the SAML response. If you do not
specify this attribute, the session duration is set to a default value
of 60 minutes.

If your users access their streaming applications in WorkSpaces Applications by using
the WorkSpaces Applications native client or using the web browser on the new
experience, their sessions are disconnected after their session duration
expires. If your users access their streaming applications in WorkSpaces Applications by using a web browser on the old/classic experience, after the
users' session duration expires and they refresh their browser page,
their sessions are disconnected.

For more information about how to configure these elements, see [Configuring SAML Assertions for the Authentication Response](../../../iam/latest/userguide/id-roles-providers-create-saml-assertions.md) in the
_IAM User Guide_. For information about specific
configuration requirements for your IdP, see the documentation for your IdP.

## Step 6: Configure the Relay State of Your Federation

Finally, use your IdP to configure the relay state of your federation to point to
the WorkSpaces Applications stack relay state URL. After successful authentication by AWS, the user
is directed to the WorkSpaces Applications stack portal, defined as the relay state in the SAML
authentication response.

The format of the relay state URL is as follows:

```nohighlight

https://relay-state-region-endpoint?stack=stackname&accountId=aws-account-id-without-hyphens
```

Construct your relay state URL from your Amazon Web Services account ID, stack name, and the
relay state endpoint associated with the Region in which your stack is
located.

Optionally, you can specify the name of the application that you want to launch
automatically. To find the application name, select the image in the WorkSpaces Applications console,
choose the **Applications** tab, and note the name that displays in
the **Application Name** column. Alternatively, if you haven't yet
created the image, connect to the image builder where you installed the application,
and open Image Assistant. The names of applications display in the **Add**
**Apps** tab.

If your fleet is enabled for the **Desktop** stream view, you can
also choose to launch directly to the operating system desktop. To do so, specify
`Desktop` at end of the relay state URL, after
`&app=`.

With an identity provider (IdP) -initiated flow, in the system default browser,
after users sign into the IdP and select the WorkSpaces Applications application from the IdP user
portal, they are redirected to an WorkSpaces Applications sign-in page in the system default browser
with the following options:

- **Continue with Browser**

- **Open WorkSpaces Applications client**

On the page, users can choose to start the session either in the browser, or with
the WorkSpaces Applications client application. Optionally, you can also specify which client should
be used for a SAML 2.0 federation. To do this, specify either `native` or
`web` at end of the relay state URL, after `&client=`.
When the parameter is present in a relay state URL, the corresponding sessions will
start in the specified client automatically, without users making the choice.

###### Note

This feature is only available if you use the new relay state region endpoints
(in Table 1 below) to construct the relay state URL, and use the WorkSpaces Applications client
version 1.1.1300 and later. Also, users should always use their system default
browser to sign into the IdP. The feature will not work if they use a
non-default browser.

With attribute-based application entitlements using a third-party SAML 2.0
identity provider, you can enable access to multiple stacks from a single relay
state URL. Remove the stack and app (if present) parameters from the relay state
URL, as follows:

```nohighlight

https://relay-state-region-endpoint?accountId=aws-account-id-without-hyphens
```

When users federate to the WorkSpaces Applications application catalog, they will be presented with
all of the stacks where application entitlements have matched one or more
applications to the user for the account ID and relay state endpoint associated with
the Region in which your stacks are located. When a user selects a catalog,
application entitlements will only display the applications the user is entitled
to.

###### Note

Users cannot stream from multiple stacks at the same time.

For more information, see [Attribute-Based Application Entitlements Using a Third-Party SAML 2.0 Identity Provider](application-entitlements-saml.md).

Table 1 below lists the relay state endpoints for the Regions where WorkSpaces Applications is
available. The relay state endpoints in Table 1 are compatible with [WorkSpaces Applications Web Browser Access (Version 2)](web-browser-access-v2.md) and the Windows client application version
1.1.1300 and later. If you are using older versions of the Windows client, you
should use the old relay state endpoints listed in Table 2 to configure your SAML
2.0 federation. If you want your users to stream using a FIPS-compliant connection,
you must use a FIPS-compliant endpoint. For more information about FIPS endpoints,
see [Protecting Data in Transit with FIPS Endpoints](protecting-data-in-transit-fips-endpoints.md).

Table 1: WorkSpaces Applications relay state region endpoints (Recommended)RegionRelay state endpointUS East (N. Virginia)

`https://appstream2.euc-sso.us-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2.euc-sso-fips.us-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

US East (Ohio)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.us-east-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`US West (Oregon)

`https://appstream2.euc-sso.us-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2.euc-sso-fips.us-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Asia Pacific (Malaysia)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-southeast-5.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Mumbai)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-south-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Seoul)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-northeast-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Singapore)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-southeast-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Sydney)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-southeast-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Tokyo)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ap-northeast-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Canada (Central)

`https://appstream2.euc-sso.ca-central-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Frankfurt)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-central-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Ireland)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-west-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (London)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Milan)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-south-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Paris)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-west-3.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Spain)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.eu-south-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`AWS GovCloud (US-East)

`https://appstream2.euc-sso.us-gov-east-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2.euc-sso-fips.us-gov-east-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

###### Note

For more information about using WorkSpaces Applications in
AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, see [Amazon WorkSpaces Applications](../../../govcloud-us/latest/userguide/govcloud-appstream2.md) in the _AWS GovCloud (US) User_
_Guide_.

AWS GovCloud (US-West)

`https://appstream2.euc-sso.us-gov-west-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2.euc-sso-fips.us-gov-west-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

###### Note

For more information about using WorkSpaces Applications in
AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, see [Amazon WorkSpaces Applications](../../../govcloud-us/latest/userguide/govcloud-appstream2.md) in the _AWS GovCloud (US) User_
_Guide_.

South America (São Paulo)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.sa-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Israel (Tel Aviv)`https://appstream2.euc-sso.il-central-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Table 2 below lists the old relay state endpoints that are still available.
However, it is recommended that you use the new relay state endpoints listed in
Table 1 to configure your SAML 2.0 federations. In particular, with the new relay
state endpoints, you can enable your users to launch the WorkSpaces Applications client application
(version 1.1.1300 and later) from IdP-initiated streaming sessions. The new relay
state endpoints in Table 1 also allow users to sign into other AWS applications in
different tabs of the same web browser, without impacting the ongoing WorkSpaces Applications
streaming session. The old relay state endpoints in Table 2 do not support this. For
more information, see [My WorkSpaces Applications client users are getting disconnected from their WorkSpaces Applications session after every 60 minutes.](troubleshooting-user-issues.md#troubleshooting-client-users-disconnected-every-60-minutes)

Table 2: Old WorkSpaces Applications relay state region endpoints (Not recommended)RegionRelay state endpointUS East (N. Virginia)

`https://appstream2.us-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2-fips.us-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

US East (Ohio)`https://appstream2.us-east-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`US West (Oregon)

`https://appstream2.us-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2-fips.us-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Asia Pacific (Mumbai)`https://appstream2.ap-south-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Seoul)`https://appstream2.ap-northeast-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Singapore)`https://appstream2.ap-southeast-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Sydney)`https://appstream2.ap-southeast-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`Asia Pacific (Tokyo)`https://appstream2.ap-northeast-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Canada (Central)

`https://appstream2.ca-central-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Frankfurt)`https://appstream2.eu-central-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (Ireland)`https://appstream2.eu-west-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`Europe (London)`https://appstream2.eu-west-2.aws.amazon.com/saml`AWS GovCloud (US-East)

`https://appstream2.us-gov-east-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2-fips.us-gov-east-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

###### Note

For more information about using WorkSpaces Applications in
AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, see [Amazon WorkSpaces Applications](../../../govcloud-us/latest/userguide/govcloud-appstream2.md) in the _AWS GovCloud (US) User_
_Guide_.

AWS GovCloud (US-West)

`https://appstream2.us-gov-west-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

(FIPS)
`https://appstream2-fips.us-gov-west-1.amazonaws-us-gov.com/saml`

###### Note

For more information about using WorkSpaces Applications in
AWS GovCloud (US) Regions, see [Amazon WorkSpaces Applications](../../../govcloud-us/latest/userguide/govcloud-appstream2.md) in the _AWS GovCloud (US) User_
_Guide_.

South America (São Paulo)`https://appstream2.sa-east-1.aws.amazon.com/saml`

Table 3 below lists all of the available parameters that you can use to construct
a relay state URL.

Table 3: Relay state URL parametersParameterRequiredFormatSupported byaccountIdRequired12-character AWS account IDNew and old endpoints in Table 1 and 2stackOptionalStack nameNew and old endpoints in Table 1 and 2appOptionalApp name or "Desktop"New and old endpoints in Table 1 and 2clientOptional“native" or "web"New endpoints in Table 1 only

[Document Conventions](../../../../general/latest/gr/docconventions.md)

Example Authentication Workflow

WorkSpaces Applications Integration with SAML 2.0

All content copied from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.
